## 4.01 Demonstrate the ability to initialize and call JavaScript components

### Include custom JavaScript on pages

**What options exist to include custom JavaScript on a page?**

Most methods involve including some JavaScript or configuration directly in the page. It is then handled with Magento's special framework or RequireJS. This has the benefit of being able to apply it only to specific blocks or areas of the site. A unique option involves a RequireJS config file that is loaded from modules.

You can also include JS files into the `<head/>` tag of the rendered page. This is helpful to include external libraries.

**Using the standard `<script type="text/javascript"></script>` tag.** This is not recommended as Magento has no control over when this is executed. You do not have the ability to leverage any existing JS classes, and it can block rendering of the page. In some cases, this is the right solution, for example if an external bundling solution is used.
For other code, use the `deferred="true"` or at least the `async="true"` attributes to the layout XML `<script>` tag so the user experience is impacted as little as possible.

**Using the `data-mage-init='{ "SwiftOtter_Module/js/modal": {"configuration-value":true} }'`** attribute. This special Magento attribute requests and instantiates a JavaScript module that takes two parameters: the element which hosts this attribute and the associated configuration (seen above in the ellipses). The module would look like:

```
// app/code/SwiftOtter/Module/view/frontend/web/js/modal.js

define([], function() {
  return function(element, config) {
    /* config: {configuration-value: true} */
  };
});
```

**Using the Magento script tag:**
```
<script type="script/x-magento-init">
  {
    ".element-selector": {
      "SwiftOtter_Module/js/modal": {
        "configuration-value": true
      }
    }
  }
</script>
```

In the above `.element-selector`, if multiple elements are found matching that selector, a new version of the module will be instantiated for each one (the module will still only be downloaded once). The selector can also be an asterisk (`*`). Contrary to the common use for the asterisk character in CSS selectors, here, it means that no elements are matched and `false` is passed to the script as the node argument.

**Imperative notation:**

While this is not usually the best way, it can be the easiest way to execute JavaScript on a page that depends on other libraries (i.e. jQuery) or modules:

```
<script type="text/javascript">
require([
  "SwiftOtter_Module/js/modal"
], function(loader) {
  /* … */
});
</script>
``` 

This is not recommended by Magento.

**RequireJS Config:**

You can include JavaScript on every page in an area using the `requirejs-config.js` file with a declaration as shown below. As a side benefit, it usually runs sooner than the special Magento attribute or script tag because there is less JavaScript that has to initialize before your module is loaded. 

```
var config = {
deps: ['SwiftOtter_Module/js/modal']
};
```

**Further reading:**
* [DevDocs: Include Static Resources](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/frontend-dev-guide/layouts/xml-manage.html#layout_markup_css)
* [DevDocs: Calling and Initializing JavaScript](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/javascript-dev-guide/javascript/js_init.html)
* [SwiftOtter: Adding Custom JavaScript](https://swiftotter.com/technical/easily-add-custom-javascript-to-magento-2-knockout-frontend)
* [Alan Storm: JavaScript Init Scripts](https://alanstorm.com/magento_2_javascript_init_scripts/)
* [Mage2.tv: JavaScript Fundamentals](https://www.mage2.tv/content/javascript/requirejs-fundamentals/)


**What are the advantages and disadvantages of inline JavaScript?**

The advantage is that inline JavaScript is easy to include, and it does not send an additional request. The downside, though, is that the code becomes difficult to reuse. Additionally, depending on what type of JavaScript is rendered, this code is not deferred and can block page loading.

If other places in the application need the same functionality, the script must be included there as well. This inhibits caching because the JavaScript cannot be cached separately from the main document and must be sent again every time. Also, as the complexity of the logic increases, it begins to be difficult to manage. At that point (or if you begin development knowing that it will soon get to this point), splitting your JavaScript into multiple files will ease development.

Additionally, inline JavaScript cannot be controlled with a Content-Security-Policy. This means that inline JavaScript is more likely to be exploited through Cross-Site-Scripting (XSS).

**Further reading:**
* [Content Security Policy](https://developer.chrome.com/extensions/contentSecurityPolicy)

**How can JavaScript be loaded asynchronously on a page?**

This occurs through placing functionality into `require` or `define` methods. What is the difference between these two methods? `require` executes immediately. When RequireJS is loading modules, and it comes across one that has this method, the contents are executed. `define` wraps a module that can be requested and used by other modules. As a result, it is only executed when called, such as `require(['SwiftOtter_Module/js/loader'], function(loader) { /* … */ });`

In the `<script/>` tag in layout XML, you can also apply common attributes that will be rendered on the `<script/>` tag in HTML, such as `defer` and `async`.

**How can JavaScript on a page be configured using block arguments in layout XML?**

The method `getJsLayout` exists in [`Magento/Framework/View/Element/AbstractBlock.php`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/lib/internal/Magento/Framework/View/Element/AbstractBlock.php). This returns the value of the `jsLayout` array as set on the block. On the frontend, `<?= $block->getJsLayout();?>` returns a JSON string, which was built from the `JsLayout` array (see example in [`Magento/Checkout/view/frontend/templates/onepage.phtml`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/code/Magento/Checkout/view/frontend/templates/onepage.phtml#L21)).

Using a hierarchy of `<arguments/>` in a block, we can assemble a JSON object for the frontend.

See this in action on the cart page:
* [`checkout_cart_index.xml`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/code/Magento/Checkout/view/frontend/layout/checkout_cart_index.xml)
* [`\Magento\Checkout\Block\Cart\Shipping`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/code/Magento/Checkout/Block/Cart/Shipping.php)
* [`shipping.phtml`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/code/Magento/Checkout/view/frontend/templates/cart/shipping.phtml)

**Further reading:**
* [Loading JavaScript in a Page with Layout XML](https://www.mage2.tv/content/javascript/requirejs-fundamentals/loading-javascript-in-a-page-with-layout-xml/)

**How can it be done directly in a .phtml template?**

This is completed by following the examples regarding including JavaScript as described above.
