## 4.04 Demonstrate the ability to implement different types of mixins

**Use Magento JavaScript mixins for customizations**

Mixins are to JavaScript as plugins are to PHP in Magento. The logic is that you can add actions before, after, or instead of core functions. This allows you to manipulate core JavaScript without always needing to override the entire file. The benefit is you have to write and maintain less code. They are quite easy to use as long as the core is facilitating. There are some places where things get weird, but they can still be used.

This DevDocs article will get you up to speed on the specifics of building mixins: [JavaScript Mixins](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/javascript-dev-guide/javascript/js_mixins.html)

**Describe advantages and limitations of using mixins.**

Mixins allow you to change functionality in other JavaScript without needing to override the entire file. This, in turn, makes upgrading the core and other modules easier because your code does not replace the entire file. Obviously, there could be a change in the module that your mixin depends on, but fixing that is usually much easier than attempting to upgrade your override.

Conversely, because the mixin is an outside entity, it can only do so much. The following is an example of something that works around a problem where various functions were not very accessible from a mixin:

```
define(function () {
     var original;
     
     function getSettingOverride(mode) {
         var output = original.call(this, mode);
         
         output['theme_advanced_buttons1'] = 
            output['theme_advanced_buttons1'] + ',styleselect';
         return output;
    }
    
    return function (target) {
        if (typeof tinyMceWysiwygSetup.prototype === 'object'
                && tinyMceWysiwygSetup.prototype.getSettings) {
            original = tinyMceWysiwygSetup.prototype.getSettings;
            tinyMceWysiwygSetup.prototype.getSettings = getSettingOverride;
        }
         return target;
    };
});
```

The biggest limitation mixins have is related to the architecture of the code within the module you are targeting.

**What are cases where mixins cannot be used?**

It is not possible to add mixins to JavasScript that is not included with RequireJS, including JavaScript in the HTML.

**Describe how to customize jQuery widgets in Magento**

There are many options available on most of Magento's jQuery widgets; these can be defined when the widget is called. Beyond whatever is available there, overriding functions in the widget, or adding functions, can be done with mixins. If the jQuery widget must be completely overhauled, it is possible to replace the entire widget; at that point, it may be better to create a completely custom widget and extend the core one.

**How can a new method be added to a jQuery widget?**

This should be done with a mixin. There is a great answer on StackExchange that details the approach: [Rewrite Widget Function with Mixin](https://magento.stackexchange.com/a/144862/1929).

When adding or modifying a widget, the callback inside the module should return the widget. It is passed to the original widget via a parameter. In effect, this callback returns a brand new widget; there's a great deal of control with that. This is where jQuery's widget factory is helpful: it will merge objects that are passed as arguments into it. For instance:

```
$.widget('mage.priceBundle', parentWidget, { /* object with new methods */ } );
```

**How can an existing method of a jQuery widget be overridden?**

The answer is nearly the same as the last question and should be done with a mixin.

Here's an example of a module that adds functionality to the `_create()` method of a parent widget. These methods should have a `this._super()` call in order to call the parent function and can override "private" methods.

```
define(['jquery'], function($) {
    function limitOptions(index, list) {
        // ...
    }

    return function(widget) {
        $.widget('mage.priceBundle', widget, {
            _create: function() {
                this._super();

                this.element.find('.options-list').each(limitOptions.bind(this));
            }
        });

        return $.mage.priceBundle;
    }
});
```


**What is the difference in approach to customizing jQuery widgets compared to other Magento JavaScript module types?**

jQuery widgets are customized by essentially creating a new version of the widget with the same name as the original one. By including the original in the widget factory method, it extends all functions and options that are not overridden. Other Magento JavaScript modules are extended via merging a mixin object onto the original one.
