## 4.05 Describe how to add a translation in JS
**Demonstrate the ability to use the JavaScript translation framework**

[Refer to the DevDocs topic on translation.](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/frontend-dev-guide/translations/translate_theory.html#add_strings_js)

Magento 2 has a mature and thorough localization framework in place. Translating strings in JavaScript is more complex than its PHP cousin. The foundation consists of `.csv` files that have the original string (English, in the core) on the left and the translated string on the right. Here is an example of a CSV line for a English to German translation:

```
"Welcome back!","Willkommen zurück!"
"Forgot Your Password?","Passwort vergessen?"
```

These JavaScript translations for the user's locale end up in JSON format in local storage. They are then used to translate dynamic strings from JavaScript modules and Knockout templates.

**How are CSV translations exported to be available in JavaScript modules?**

This question is a bit unclear, but we will provide insight into how strings are translated in JavaScript. Ultimately, the answer is to use the `i18n:collect-phrases` command ([DevDocs: Generate a Translation Dictionary](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/config-guide/cli/config-cli-subcommands-i18n.html#config-cli-subcommands-xlate-dict)). This command collects strings that meet the translation criteria ([Translate Theme Strings](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2./frontend-dev-guide/translations/translate_theory.html)) and saves them into CSV format for translation. The `.csv` language files provide a list of all strings that need to be translated-they can be sent to translators for processing.

The translated strings still need to make it to the frontend. Here is how that happens: there is a `.phtml` template ([`Magento_Translation/view/base/templates/translate.phtml`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/code/Magento/Translation/view/base/templates/translate.phtml)) comprised of a RequireJS call for translation stuff from the server. It only fetches the strings for the current store, or, more specifically, the locale. The server responds with a JSON object of the strings which the module then persists to localStorage. The server actually saves the JSON content as well, in a `js-translation.json` file within the theme directory in `pub/static`.

**Further reading:** 
* [Translate Theme Strings](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2./frontend-dev-guide/translations/translate_theory.html)

**Notes:** 
* If you can't get some JavaScript translations to work, delete `js-translation.json` in your theme's folder within `pub/static`.
* You can see what strings are available to JavaScript two ways. First, you could open the `js-translation.json` file. Second, in Chrome DevTools, select Local Storage under the Application tab. After picking the correct domain, filter to `mage-translation-storage`.

**How is a new translation phrase added using JavaScript methods?**

Follow the DevDocs: [Strings Added in JS Files](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/frontend-dev-guide/translations/translate_theory.html#add_strings_js).

Briefly, add `jquery` and `mage/translate` as dependencies; then `$.mage.__('Translate this string please')`.

**Demonstrate an understanding of string translation in JavaScript.**

The first example under each heading below shows rendering a plain string. The second example shows how to use substitutions.

UI Component templates:
```html
<span data-bind="i18n: 'Shopping Cart'"></span>
<input type="text" data-bind="attr: {placeholder: $t("Email")}"/>
<translate args="'Shopping Cart'"></translate>
<span translate="'Shopping Cart'"></span>
```

UI Component configuration files:
specify `translate="true"` on the element that contains text.

JS files:

require the `jquery` and `mage/translate` modules, then

```
$.mage.__('Shopping Cart')
$.mage.__("%1 items in your cart").replace("%1", numberOfItems);
```

Alternatively require only `mage/translate` and assign it to a variable named `$t`

```
$t('Shopping Cart')
```

The method names `$t` or `$.mage.__`  are mandatory, otherwise the JavaScript translation string will not be included in the generated js-translation.json file.

**Further reading:**
* [Translate Theme Strings](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/frontend-dev-guide/translations/translate_theory.html)
* [Mage2.tv: Localization in JavaScript](https://www.mage2.tv/content/javascript/localization-in-javascript/)
