## 4.06 Describe interactions between UI components

**Describe the process of sharing data between components**

**How can one uiComponent instance access data of another instance?**

The native approach is to use one of: `imports`, `exports`, `links`, and `listens`. They are described in more detail in the DevDocs: [Linking Properties of UI Components](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/ui_comp_guide/concepts/ui_comp_linking_concept.html).

**How can components communicate while taking into account their asynchronous nature?**

A problem arises when a module that depends on another module loads first. Referencing a dependency when it hasn't loaded will result in an undefined object. There are two ways the core works around this: add a `deps` (preferable), or use a Knockout observable. The `deps` works in the same way that RequireJS dependencies do: it loads the child before executing the parent. The `deps` must be declared in the JSON configuration (although, often that would be via XML). Here is an example from: [`vendor/magento/module-sales/view/adminhtml/ui_component/sales_order_shipment_grid.xml`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/code/Magento/Sales/view/adminhtml/ui_component/sales_order_shipment_grid.xml).

```xml
<listing>
    <settings>
        <deps>
            <dep>
                sales_order_shipment_grid.sales_order_shipment_grid_data_source
            </dep>
        </deps>
    </settings>
</listing>
```

The UI Component way to use Knockout observables would be to set a property as an observable (with `tracks`), then 
use `imports` to obtain the data from the other source. Vinai Kopp proposes a better alternative of creating a 
module just for the purpose of tracking state. It would return an observable object. 
