## 4.07 Demonstrate the usage of Knockout JS

### Understanding knockout framework

KnockoutJS is the framework that powers much of Magento's frontend. It is structured around the idea of reactive data: instead of the developer tracking changes, and subscribing to events, data flows through the system and updates the pertinent bindings as it arrives. It has been built on top of and abstracted quite extensively in Magento.

**Further reading:**
* [Alan Storm: KnockoutJS Primer for Magento Developers](https://alanstorm.com/knockoutjs_primer_for_magento_developers/)
* [Inchoo: KnockoutJS in Magento 2](https://inchoo.net/magento-2/knockout-js-in-magento-2/)

**How do you use knockout.js bindings?**

Bindings are a way to link reactive data with HTML. They are connected with the `data-bind` attribute like:
```html
<input type="text" data-bind="value: firstName "/>
```

Assuming `firstName` is an observable in the Knockout model, the value of `this.firstName` will be automatically updated whenever the input's value changes.

There are many bindings available. Here are some of the most common:
* [`text` binding](http://knockoutjs.com/documentation/text-binding.html): sets the `innerText` of an element.
* [`visible` binding](http://knockoutjs.com/documentation/visible-binding.html): controls whether or not an element is visible.
* [`if` binding](http://knockoutjs.com/documentation/if-binding.html): similar to `visible` but removes or adds the child nodes based on the evaluation of the property.
* [`click` binding](http://knockoutjs.com/documentation/click-binding.html): calls the specified function when the element is clicked. It's a one-way binding (HTML to JavaScript) which differs slightly from other bindings that are bi-directional.
* [`value` binding](https://knockoutjs.com/documentation/value-binding.html) / [`checked` binding](http://knockoutjs.com/documentation/checked-binding.html) / [`options` binding](http://knockoutjs.com/documentation/options-binding.html)

Magento also provides some custom bindings. All of them can be set as regular bindings in a `data-bind=""` attribute, but some may also be specified as virtual knockout elements, custom attributes, or custom elements.
All of the following are more or less equivalent if used within a knockout .html template:
```html
<span data-bind="text: '1. Text output'"></span>
<!-- ko text: '2. Text output' --><!-- /ko -->
<span text="'3. Text output'"></span>
<text args="'4. Text output'"></text>
```
Note that not all bindings are supported in all variations, and for some, the binding name is different (for example `data-bind="i18n: '…'"` and `translate="'…'"`).

**Further reading:**
* [DevDocs: Custom KnockoutJS Bindings](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/ui_comp_guide/concepts/knockout-bindings.html)
* [KnockoutJS: Visible Binding](http://knockoutjs.com/documentation/visible-binding.html)

**How do you bind a ko view model to a section of the DOM with the scope binding?**

The `scope` binding connects a UI component that is registered in the [`uiRegistry`](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/ui_comp_guide/concepts/ui_comp_uiregistry.html) with an element that has already been configured. This changes that element's Knockout binding scope to use the class that represents the specified UI component.

```html
<div data-bind="scope: 'estimation'">
    <p data-bind="text: description"></p>
</div>
```

In this example, the `div` tag will be bound directly to the UI component that is registered in the uiRegistry with the identifier `estimation`: [`Magento/Checkout/view/frontend/layout/checkout_index_index.xml`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/be4c4e0243c98183eb0c3f36a4e7a74a1ae98873/app/code/Magento/Checkout/view/frontend/layout/checkout_index_index.xml#L60)

Due to the complexity of this, I highly recommend doing some experimenting and watching Mage2.tv's excellent series on Knockout and data binding.

**Further reading:**
* [Mage2.tv: JavaScript](https://www.mage2.tv/content/javascript/)
* [DevDocs: Custom KnockoutJS Bindings](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.3/ui_comp_guide/concepts/knockout-bindings.html)

**How do you render a ko template of a UiComponent?**

The UI Components on the checkout page provide a good example regarding how to specify the template used to be rendered.

[`vendor/magento/module-checkout/view/frontend/web/js/view/payment.js`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/code/Magento/Checkout/view/frontend/web/js/view/payment.js)

Here is a basic UIComponent and template:

```
// app/code/SwiftOtter/Flex/view/web/js/example-component.js

define([
    'uiComponent'
], function (
    Component
) {
    return Component.extend({
        defaults: {
            template: SwiftOtter_Flex/example-component',
            sampleText: "Here is some sample text."
        }
    });
});
```

```html
// app/code/SwiftOtter/Flex/view/web/template/example-component

<div class="sample-component">
   <p data-bind="text: sampleText"></p>
</div>

```

**Further reading:**
* [StackExchange: KnockoutJS Custom Template Binding](https://magento.stackexchange.com/a/89821/13)

**Demonstrate an understanding of the different types of Knockout observables.**

Observables allow a cascading effect of functionality to happen when data changes. Typically, when we build interfaces, we receive an `input`'s `change` event and then process the data. While that works, observables remove us having to write the code to link the data change to the events that transpire. As such, they are very powerful.

The basic observable is created with a call to `this.price = ko.observable(12.42)`. To get an observables value, it needs to be called as a function without arguments (e.g. `this.price()`).
To update the value, it needs to be called as a function with an argument (e.g. `this.price(12.99)`.
Any update to the value triggers any dom elements that Knockout rendered with that observable to be re-rendered.
This works well for any data type except arrays. If the observable contains an array or an object, a regular Knockout observable does not trigger updates when values within the array change.
For this reason, `ko.observableArray([])` should be used when working with arrays.
There also are observable functions, which are called "computed observables" and are created with a call to `ko.computed(callback)` or `ko.pureComputed(callback)`.

Magento also includes the Knockout plugin ko-es5. The benefit of ko-es5 is that it allows the creation of observables that can be read and set like regular properties, while Knockout still tracks the changes under the hood.

You can use the observable's `subscribe` method to listen to changes. The real value of the observable comes out when you bind that to an element in the template like:

```html
<div data-bind="text: price"></div>
```

**What common ko bindings are used?**

See above section for a list of common ko bindings.

**Demonstrate an understanding of ko virtual elements.**

Virtual elements are a way to bind a child element without having to insert a node into the DOM just to specify the binding.

```html
<ul>
  <li>Please choose</li>
  <!-- ko foreach: payments -->
  <li data-bind="text: $data.name"></li>
  <!-- /ko -->
</ul>
```

Supplying the default first list item cannot be easily done when the `foreach` binding is specified on the `ul` element:

```html
<ul data-bind="foreach: payments">
  <li data-bind="text: $data.name"></li>
</ul>
```

**Further reading:**
* [KnockoutJS: Custom Bindings for Virtual Elements](http://knockoutjs.com/documentation/custom-bindings-for-virtual-elements.html)
