## 4.09 Demonstrate the usage of JS components using Layout XML

**Points to remember:**
* Layout xml has nothing to do with UIComponents, or any other JS in Magento in general.
* There could be "custom" code that generates various JSON configurations to UIComponents or other Magento JS modules. The generated code usually comes from the associated block or ViewModel.
* One area where layout xml is used intensively for UiComponents configuration is checkout. Note that this is not a framework, and you can not reuse it easily in different places. This functionality is a part of checkout implementation, and we will review it in this section.

The Magento checkout is built with UIComponents but differs from the admin side in some of the implementation details. For instance, the configuration is handled via nested nodes in layout XML, the like of which many have never seen before. Just wait until you want to customize something: it's [jaw dropping](https://twitter.com/MagentoNinja/status/928980476685111296). Fortunately, even though it is verbose and remarkable, it is not especially difficult, and it is very extensible (despite its infamous reputation).

We will once again recommend the terrific DevDocs which contain a list of common customizations: [Customize Checkout](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/howdoi/checkout/checkout_overview.html).

**Describe key classes in checkout JavaScript: Actions, models, and views**

**What are actions, models, and views used for in checkout?**

Navigate to the [`vendor/magento/module-checkout/view/frontend/web/js/`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/tree/2.4-develop/app/code/Magento/Checkout/view/frontend/web/js) folder to see three primary subfolders: actions, models, and views. This seems to follow the MVC pattern that many developers are familiar with.

**How does Magento store checkout data?**

Temporary data is stored in localStorage, or in the cookies if localStorage is not supported. At the root, the [`Magento_Customer/js/customer-data`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/code/Magento/Customer/view/frontend/web/js/customer-data.js) module persists and loads the data. The [`Magento_Checkout/js/checkout-data`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/code/Magento/Checkout/view/frontend/web/js/checkout-data.js) module provides a layer on top of that to allow a consistent interface to interact with data via methods. Beyond that, the [`Magento_Checkout/js/model/checkout-data-resolver`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/code/Magento/Checkout/view/frontend/web/js/model/checkout-data-resolver.js) handles a number of setup and other tasks related to the data. For example, when checkout starts, it creates a new shipping address, or loads the existing state if the user has already started. All of this is stored with the `mage-cache-storage` key in Local Storage. To see, open the Application tab in Chrome's DevTools. Open the Local Storage menu on the left sidebar and select the current domain. Select the `mage-cache-storage` item for a preview of the JSON.

**What type of classes are used for loading/posting data to the server?**

The Rest API provides the integration with the checkout frontend and server. Model classes (JavaScript modules) are primarily relegated the task of handling this transfer of data. However, a few action modules also perform similar functions.

**How does a view file update current information?**

Updated information is persisted through the `checkout-data` module.

**Demonstrate the ability to use the checkout steps for debugging and customization**

**How do you add a new checkout step?**

Refer to the DevDocs topic: [Add a New Checkout Step](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/howdoi/checkout/checkout_new_step.html)

**How do you modify the order of steps?**

Change the sort order of the children of the `steps` node.

```xml
<item name="steps" xsi:type="array">
    <item name="displayArea" xsi:type="string">steps</item>
    <item name="children" xsi:type="array">
        <item name="shipping-step" xsi:type="array">
            <item name="sortOrder" xsi:type="string">1</item>
            <!-- ... -->
        </item>
        <item name="billing-step" xsi:type="array">
            <item name="sortOrder" xsi:type="string">2</item>
            <!-- ... -->
        </item>
    </item>
</item>

```
