## 5.01 Demonstrate the ability to customize Page Builder content

The core `Magento_PageBuilder` module contains numerous content types that can
be dropped into the Page Builder preview interface, and you can extend these or create your own content types with a combination
of XML configuration, Knockout templates, and possibly JavaScript.

### Page Builder content types

The Page Builder editing interface contains a toolbar of various types that can be dragged into the stage - content types 
like "Text", "Heading", "Buttons", 
"Banner" and "Slider". Each of these types has its own independent configuration. The starting point for a type's config
is in an XML file in `view/adminhtml/pagebuilder` (e.g., `banner.xml`).

In these config files, a `<type>` is declared, with a nested hierarchy related to breakpoints, "appearances", and elements.

```xml
<config ...>
    <type name="banner"
          ...>
        <breakpoints>
            ...
        </breakpoints>
        <appearances>
            <appearance name="collage-left"
                        ...>
                <elements>
                    <element name="main">
                        <style ... />
                        <attribute ... />
                        ...
                    </element>
                    ...
                    <element name="content">
                        <html .../>
                    </element>
                </elements>
            </appearance>
            ...
        </appearances>
    </type>
</config>
```

The different `<appearance>` nodes for a type are essentially different potential visual layouts, each defining its collection of
elements. The admin form for configuring each type will present the different appearances to choose between. An `<element>` is essentially just a container with a name, defining various attributes that can be bound into
the Knockout template.

`<type>` has the following important attributes:

* `name` - The name of the type, which will also be bound to a data attribute in the output
* `label` - Label used in Page Builder
* `component` and `preview_component` - The JS components actually bound to the Knockout templates used for rendering the
    final output (the "master" component
    or the component used in the preview UI). When no unique JS is needed, these can be `Magento_PageBuilder/js/content-type`
    and `Magento_PageBuilder/js/content-type/preview`.
* `form` - Defines the UI component for the configuration form
* `menu_section` - Determines which menu in the Page Builder toolbar the type appears in

Each `<appearance>` and the nested `<element>` nodes have a `name` attribute to identify them. We'll explore other fields below.

Content type config XML follows the same merging behavior as other Magento XML, so this configuration can be modified in your
own modules by including the same filename in `view/admihtml/pagebuilder` and using the `name` of elements you want to extend.

### Wiring Forms, config and KO templates together

A content type's configuration XML file is only one piece of its definition, and in fact an intermediary piece.

The `form` attribute of `<type>` references the name of a UI form component, which is found in the core module in 
`view/adminhtml/ui_component`. (For example, `pagebuilder_banner_form.xml`.) These UI components define the form that allows
setting configuration values for a particular instance of the type in Page Builder, and they follow the same rules and
structure as any other UI components in the Magento admin.

All content type forms "extend" the UI component `pagebuilder_base_form`, which you can find in the XML file of the same name,
and which defines an "Advanced" section common to all types. This section has fields for borders, margins and padding,
and CSS class names. Some forms extend `pagebuilder_base_form_with_background_attributes` with common fields for a background,
or `pagebuilder_base_form_with_background_video` with fields for background video.

The optional `<form>` node can be included in an `<appearance>` in the main type config XML to specify a different form
per appearance, providing the opportunity for unique fields tied to an appearance.

The fields in the form UI component provide admin users with a way to set values that can then be used in the content type presentation.
The main type config file in `view/adminhtml/pagebuilder` mainly functions to wire such fields to rendered style properties
or attributes on each element. Two main nodes are used for this:

* `<style>` - The `name` attribute references the exact field name from the UI component, while `source` defines the camel-cased
    name of the CSS property the value is mapped to.
* `<attribute>` - The `name` attribute again references the field name, while `source` defines an HTML attribute name the
    value is mapped to. (Usually a data attribute, like `data-video-overlay-color`.)

Both nodes can also define JS components with the `converter` or `preview_converter` attribute, which will be used to modify
the value before it is bound in rendering.

Another node defined somewhere in the hierarchy of basically any appearance is `<css>`, always using the `name` "css_classes"
to map to the form field containing CSS classnames.

Each `<appearance>` defines the paths to two different Knockout templates, with the attributes `master_template` and
`preview_template`. (For example, `Magento_PageBuilder/content-type/banner/collage-left/master`, corresponding to the template
in `view/adminhtml/web/template`. Templates are in the `adminhtml` area, because they are used to render the final HTML
saved in the admin.) These templates contain Knockout mark-up and can define any desired HTML structure to
arrange the data from the appearance's elements. The various elements can be referenced with `data.{element-name}`. (For
example, `data.main` to reference the details of `<element name="main">`.)

The unique KO bindings important to any content type are:

* `attr="data.{element-name}.attributes"` - This renders all the defined `<attribute>` data onto the HTML element.
* `ko-style="data.{element-name}.style"` - This will attach all inline styles defined with `<style>` to the HTML element.
* `css="data.{element-name}.css"` - This will output a `class` with all classnames from `<css>`.

The `master` template controls the actual saved HTML output, while the `preview` template controls how the content displays
in the Page Builder preview interface. You should spend some time examining the Knockout bindings and events commonly included in 
preview templates.

Other important nodes in type definition XML include:

* `<static_style>` - Specifies an inline style property that doesn't need to be user-defined. This can be useful instead of
    stylesheet-provided rules if a property is absolutely necessary for a type to be rendered properly.
    * `<static_style source="display" value="flex"/>`
* `<html>` - Maps to a form field that provides HTML output. This can then be referenced in the KO template like `html="data.{element-name}.html"`.
    * `<html name="heading_text" converter="Magento_PageBuilder/js/converter/html/tag-escaper"/>`

### Styling content types

The inline styles defined with `<style>` and `<static_style>` nodes in type configuration XML are not actually rendered
inline in the HTML output. Instead, any HTML element with the `ko-style` binding in the KO template gets a data attribute
with a dynamically generated value:

```html
<h2 data-pb-style="SHBR1XP">This is a heading</h2>
```

For an entire content block composed of Page Builder content, a `<style>` block is then added to the beginning of the content,
with the various properties implemented using an attribute selector.

```html
<style>
    #html-body [data-pb-style=SHBR1XP] {
        border-style: solid;
        border-color: #0000fe;
        border-width: 1px;
        border-radius: 5px
    }
</style>
```

Further styling of content types is done with typical LESS partials in both `view/adminhtml/web/css/source` and
`view/frontend/web/css/source`. These are usually organized with paths like `content-type/{type-name}/_{appearance-name}.less`. A common
convention for styling Page Builder content is by using attribute selectors targeting the content type, appearance, or a particular
element (corresponding to each `<element>` in the config).

```less
[data-content-type='banner'] {
    [data-appearance='collage-left'] {
        [data-element='wrapper'] {
            ...
        }
    }
}
```

You can modify the appearance of a Page Builder content type in your own modules or themes using the same kinds of selectors.
Note that the `#html-body [data-pb-style=...]` selector pattern used for inline styles has a specificity of 110, so you can
override these simply by using a selector pattern with a higher specificity.

### Breakpoints and viewports

The `etc/view.xml` file in `Magento_PageBuilder` uses the common syntax for all `view.xml` files to define an array of information
related to breakpoints.

```xml
<vars module="Magento_PageBuilder">
    <var name="breakpoints">
        <var name="desktop">
            ...
            <var name="conditions">
                <var name="min-width">1024px</var>
            </var>
            <var name="options">
                ...
            </var>
        </var>
        <var name="tablet">
            <var name="conditions">
                <var name="max-width">1024px</var>
                <var name="min-width">768px</var>
            </var>
            ...
        </var>
        ...
    </var>
</vars>
```

The simplest configuration defines a named breakpoint with associated `min-width` and `max-width` values and other optional
data (like `options` seen above). These named breakpoints can then be utilized in CSS and JS.

Each breakpoint config can also define additional data upgrading it to a "viewport" that is actually available in the
viewport switcher in the Page Builder interface. Switching between viewports will adjust the preview stage to match the
viewport constraints, giving an accurate view of the presentation at that size. (By default, "desktop", "tablet", "mobile"
and "mobile-small" breakpoints exist, but only "desktop" and "mobile" are switch-able viewports.) The relevant `<var>`
values and their `name` attributes include:

* "label" - The label in the viewport switcher
* "stage" - Set to `true` to make available in the stage
* "class" - Class of the "switcher" button
* "icon" - Path to an SVG icon used in the "switcher" button

To reference a named viewport in CSS, use `.{viewport-name}-viewport`. (For example, `.mobile-viewport`.)

Viewports can be interacted with in JavaScript in two ways. For the front-end, use the `matchMedia` component to trigger
logic on different viewports. For the admin, listen for the event `stage:viewportChangeAfter`. In both cases, you will have
access to a breakpoint object containing the details of the media conditions and any other config info attached to that
breakpoint (e.g., `options`). In `Magento_PageBuilder`, see `view/base/web/js/content-type/products/appearance/carousel/widget.js`
for an example. (This component is applicable both in the front-end and in the admin, which is why it uses both.)

In the content type config in `view/adminhtml/pagebuilder`, a `<form>` can be defined for a `<breakpoint>`, just like a unique
form can be applied per appearance. In the corresponding form in `view/adminhtml/ui_component`, the data of any `<field>`
can specify named breakpoints the value applies to:

```xml
<item name="config" xsi:type="array">
    <item name="breakpoints" xsi:type="array">
        <item name="mobile" xsi:type="boolean">true</item>
    </item>
</item>
```

In this way, the user-provided value for a field can be made unique to the viewport currently selected in the preview
area.

As a final note, the `<var name="media">` node for a breakpoint in `view.xml` should contain a media query aligned with
the `max-width` and `min-width` values. Uniquely, this "media" value is used for the `<style>` output of any viewport-specific
values as described above.

```html
<style>
  @media only screen and (max-width: 768px) {
    #html-body [data-pb-style=I5F99DN] {
      min-height: 100px
    }
  }
</style>
```

When defining a new viewport, in addition to the config in `view.xml` with info on icon, conditions, "media", etc., you 
should also add a LESS file with the appropriate styles to transform the Page Builder stage for that viewport. In `Magento_PageBuilder`,
see `view/adminhtml/web/css/source/_mobile-viewport.less`.

### Creating new content types

When creating a brand new content type, in addition to providing the appropriate config file, UI form component file, KO
templates, and LESS file(s), also remember to create a conventional layout XML file with a name matching the pattern
`pagebuilder_{form-name}.xml`. This should simply apply the appropriate `<uiComponent>`. See the core examples in `Magento_PageBuilder`,
in `view/adminhtml/layout`.

When your new content type requires JavaScript functionality at runtime, you should also define the "widget" JavaScript 
component that corresponds with your type. (This is in contrast with the components declared
in your type config file, which are used only in Page Builder to assist the output of the final HTML content that is saved.)
These "widget" components are typically defined in the `base` area to be accessible from both the front-end and the preview area of the admin, and
they are typically named `widget.js`. See examples in `Magento_PageBuilder`, in `view/base/web/js/content-type`.

These components should be added to the `WidgetInitializerConfig` model via `di.xml` configuration. Each separate appearance
can have its own component.

```xml
<type name="Magento\PageBuilder\Model\WidgetInitializerConfig">
    <arguments>
        <argument name="config" xsi:type="array">
            <item name="{type-name}" xsi:type="array">
                <item name="{appearance-name}" xsi:type="array">
                    <item name="component" 
                        xsi:type="string">
                        MyVendor_MyModule/js/content-type/custom-type/appearance/default/widget
                    </item>
                </item>
            </item>
        </argument>
    </arguments>
</type>
```

**Further reading:**
* [Page Builder Example Modules](https://developer.adobe.com/commerce/frontend-core/page-builder/pagebuilder-examples/)
* [Content Type Configurations](https://developer.adobe.com/commerce/frontend-core/page-builder/architecture/configurations/)
* [Creating Content Types](https://developer.adobe.com/commerce/frontend-core/page-builder/content-types/create/)
* [Extending Content Types](https://developer.adobe.com/commerce/frontend-core/page-builder/content-types/extend/)
