## 5.02 Describe frontend optimization

In this section, we do not cover standard frontend optimizations that are useful for every website, we only cover Magento-specific questions.

**Points to remember:**
* Magento compiles all less files into few css files that are included on every page.
* Magento uses RequireJS AMD concept, which implies that every js module is encapsulated in a separate module and loaded separately which generates hundreds of connections to the server.
* CDN usually helps reduce load from the server, and sometimes improves performance, however CDNs are not supported out of the box and usually require an extension.

### Show configuration and usage of CSS merging and minification

**Demonstrate the primary use case for merging and minification. Determine how these options can be found in the backend. Understand the implications merging has in respect to folder traversal.**

The goal of merging is to reduce the number of HTTP requests. The goal of minification is to reduce the number of bytes being transferred. Minification is valuable as it strips out whitespace which adds extra weight to the download request. Both of these provide performance boosts.

To enable / disable these settings, go into Store > Configuration > Advanced > Developer > CSS Settings.

### Configure JavaScript merging and minify in the Admin UI

Note that JavaScript bundling and minifying has its pros and cons. Loading one (or multiple) large bundle is not necessarily better than loading many small scripts on demand.

**What options are available to configure JavaScript minification and bundling?**

The following settings are found in Store > Configuration > Advanced > Developer.

* **Merge JavaScript files:** concatenates source JavaScript files from an area together into one file to download. The idea is that this boosts performance by reducing the total number of JavaScript requests. This means a massive JS file is downloaded which can pose problems in its own way. HTTP/2 can be a better way to improve performance (or use Webpack).
* **Bundle JavaScript files:** groups the JS files into bundles. This is a similar idea to merging but supposed to be more flexible and downloads several files. The Inchoo article below has some interesting performance statistics and turning this on could negatively impact performance.
* **Minify JavaScript files:** reduces the JS file's size by doing things like stripping whitespace and shortening variable names.

The most important is to ensure that the server is properly configured with HTTP/2 and Gzip compression enabled.

**Further reading:**
* [JavaScript Bundling in Magento 2](https://inchoo.net/magento-2/javascript-bundling-magento-2/)

**How does Magento minify JavaScript?**

Magento's minification of JS is a two part system. The first part is to configure RequireJS to add a `.min` suffix to files. The second part is to minify the files.

Magento tells requireJS to download minified files through the minified resolver: [`vendor/magento/module-require-js/Model/FileManager::ensureMinResolverFile()`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/code/Magento/RequireJs/Model/FileManager.php), method.

Then, Magento will minify the files as necessary. [`vendor/magento/framework/App/StaticResource.php`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/lib/internal/Magento/Framework/App/StaticResource.php) is responsible for minifying each file.

This is where the hand-off to the JShrink library happens: [`vendor/magento/framework/Code/Minifier/Adapter/Js/JShrink.php`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/lib/internal/Magento/Framework/Code/Minifier/Adapter/Js/JShrink.php)

The minified files are saved with a `.min` suffix. As a result, all the file names are different in production. This poses a potential problem during deployment if those assets are built outside of the primary Magento database, or if the setting is changed at some point after the assets are built. If the static content is deployed with a different setting, none of the JavaScript on the site will work.

**What is the purpose of JavaScript bundling and minification?**

To reduce download time and make the frontend more useful and faster.

Note, that the main problem related to CDN is updating its static assets, every time they are changed (or `static-content:deploy` is executed). That's why usually we need an extension to use CDN.

**Further reading:**
* [Using a Content Delivery Network](https://docs.magento.com/user-guide/system/media-storage-content-delivery-network.html) 
