## 2.01 Demonstrate the ability to utilize layout XML instructions 

### Demonstrate knowledge of all layout XML directives and their arguments

**What layout XML elements exist and what is their purpose?**

The basic building blocks of layout XML elements are `<block/>` and `<container/>`. Most other layout instructions make modifications to blocks and containers.

**Containers**

Containers contain or group blocks and other containers. If you look in the root layout XML file, you will see the top-most element in [`Magento/Theme/view/base/page_layout/empty.xml`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/code/Magento/Theme/view/base/page_layout/empty.xml) is a container.

Containers are helpful in providing a more extensible means of grouping and rendering child blocks because the HTML tag and class can be specified in XML. Using blocks with an iterator, or a [`ListText`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/lib/internal/Magento/Framework/View/Element/Text/ListText.php) block does not have this advantage.
However, the [`ListText`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/lib/internal/Magento/Framework/View/Element/Text/ListText.php) block has the advantage that data values can be set via the layout XML `<arguments>` node. Containers don't allow for `<arguments>`.

**Notable container attributes ([Layout Instructions: Container](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/frontend-dev-guide/layouts/xml-instructions.html#fedg_layout_xml-instruc_ex_cont))**
* `name`: required. This defines how you will reference this container from other areas in the system.
* `htmlTag`: a tag to wrap the child block output. Required if htmlClass is specified.
* `htmlClass`: the class(es) to apply to the wrapper HTML tag.

**ReferenceContainer**

The extensible aspect of a container is to be able to reference it throughout layout XML. This capability is leveraged with the `<referenceContainer/>` tag. 

Here's an example from [`Magento/Catalog/view/frontend/layout/catalog_product_view_type_simple.xml`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/code/Magento/Catalog/view/frontend/layout/catalog_product_view_type_simple.xml):

```xml
<referenceContainer name="product.info.type">
    <block name="additional.product.details"
      template="SwiftOtter::product.details.phtml">
        <arguments>
            <argument name="viewModel" type="xsi:object">
              SwiftOtter\Flex\Block\ProductDetails
            </argument>
        </arguments>
    </block>
</referenceContainer>
```

The above example will include a new logic class (using the recommended Template Block + ViewModel approach) to render additional product details. The template from this example is automatically rendered to the page within the container `product.info.type`.

**Blocks**

Blocks are a foundational building unit for layout in Magento. They are the link between a PHP block class, which contains logic and a template which renders content. Blocks can have children and grandchildren (and so on). Information can be passed from layout XML into the block via the `<arguments/>` child node. For those of a hybrid discipline (backend developers) this could include view models ([View Models in Magento 1 and 2](https://www.integer-net.com/view-models-in-magento-1-and-2/)) or some static values to be utilized in the template.

**Notable block attributes ([Layout Instructions: Block](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/frontend-dev-guide/layouts/xml-instructions.html#fedg_layout_xml-instruc_ex_block))**
* `class`: defaults to [`\Magento\Framework\View\Element\Template`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/lib/internal/Magento/Framework/View/Element/Template.php) and does not need to be specified. In fact, Magento recommends against specifying a class (see note in the header comments for the Template class in case the block only is required to output a template).
* `name`: used to interact with the block from other locations in the frontend.
* `before` / `after`: places the block before or after another element, as identified by its name. Or, you can specify a `-` (dash) to place the block at the beginning or end respectively.
* `template`: the path to the template. You should always use Magento module path notation. Example: `SwiftOtter_Hero::hero.phtml`. If the module name is omitted, Magento will attempt to determine it based on the block name, which fails if a generic block class is used or the block class is changed with layout or di XML (more details: [Magento 2 Template Paths](https://swiftotter.com/technical/magento-2-template-paths)).
* `cacheable` (default `true`): if specified as `false`, the entire page will not be cached with Full Page Cache. Because this negatively impacts performance, it is best to never add to blocks that are on pages where the caching is applied. Instead, follow the directions in [this Magento Stack Exchange post on how to utilize Magento's ESI system](https://magento.stackexchange.com/a/93473/13) if the block content is public, that is, the identical for all visitors, or use customer-data sections in case the content is private (that is, specific for each visitor). More information on including private data on cached pages can be found on [Mage2.tv: Full Page Cache](https://www.mage2.tv/content/full-page-cache/).

**Further reading:**
* [Layout XML Instructions](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/frontend-dev-guide/layouts/xml-instructions.html)

**ReferenceBlock**

Like containers, referencing another block allows you to affect the output of another block.

* `<referenceBlock name="product.info.sku" remove="true"/>`: completely removes the block from layout.
* `<referenceBlock name="product.info.sku" display="false"/>`: prevents a block from displaying (the associated PHP classes are still loaded).
* Change the template of an existing block:
    ```xml
    <referenceBlock name="product.info.sku">
        <arguments>
            <argument name="template" xsi:type="string">
                SwiftOtter_Flex::new-sku.phtml
            </argument>
        </arguments>
    </referenceBlock>
    ```
  * Note that changing the template here will break fallback patterns that depend on the original file chosen. As such, this might be problematic for module developers.
  * For example, let's say you are developing a module and want to redirect the SKU's template to a custom one in your module. A merchant, who uses your module, installs a custom theme. When they browse to the product page, the SKU might not look correct because the theme they installed did not take into account the updated SKU template.


**What is the purpose of the attributes that are available on blocks and other elements?**

The idea is to place configuration into one location (alongside the other configuration that is controlling the look of the page). Layout XML configures containers and blocks. It would be easier to maintain extra details for containers and blocks when they are not buried in a mass of HTML. In addition, this opens up the possibility for module developers to easily adjust these parameters without having to override many templates.

**Other important layout instructions:**

* `<update handle="customer_account"/>`: this includes instructions from another layout handle. Example: [`Magento/Sales/view/frontend/layout/sales_order_view.xml`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/code/Magento/Sales/view/frontend/layout/sales_order_view.xml)
* `<move element="existing.element.name" destination="target.element"/>`: this moves an element (block or container) into another element (block or container).
  * The `move` element also contains `before` and `after` attributes so you can change the element's placement within a parent if so desired.
