## 2.02 Demonstrate the ability to create new page layouts

### Describe page layouts and their inheritance

**How can the page layout be specified?**

The page layout is specified in a layout XML file, in the root `<page/>` node, like:
`<page layout="2columns-left" …></page>`

**What is the purpose of page layouts?**

The purpose is to create a structured and common set of layout instructions to render pages. Most pages on a website can be categorized as fitting into a 1 column, 2 column, or 3 column container system. These page layouts can be selected throughout the admin panel to provide a specific layout by page.

**How can a custom page layout be created?**

To create a custom layout, you must first define the layout, define the common layout instructions, and then utilize that layout (as seen in the first answer to this section). In our example below, we will create a text layout. This is similar to the two column layout example except the text area is narrower.

Page layouts only contain containers. This is different from the page configuration (XML files with a layout handle as their file name, and stored in `view/[area]/layout`) which can contain blocks and containers.

The definition of the layouts are stored in your module's `layouts.xml` file, like `app/code/SwiftOtter/Test/view/layouts.xml`. See the following example.

**Defining the layout:**

In a module's `view/[area]` directory, create a `layouts.xml` file:

```xml
<!-- app/code/SwiftOtter/Test/view/layouts.xml -->
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<page_layouts xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
        xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:magento:framework:View/PageLayout/etc/layouts.xsd">
    <layout id="text">
        <label translate="true">Text layout</label>
    </layout>
</page_layouts>
```

**Defining the common layout instructions:**

```xml
<!-- app/code/SwiftOtter/Module/view/page_layout/text.xml -->
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<layout xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:magento:framework:View/Layout/etc/page_layout.xsd">
    <!-- notice foundation page layout of 2columns-right: -->
    <update handle="2columns-right"/>

    <!-- Instead of adding to body tag which isn't possible from page_layout xml -->
    <referenceContainer name="page.wrapper" htmlClass="page-wrapper page-layout-2columns-right layout--text"/>
</layout>
```

**Where are the existing page layouts used?**

Page layouts can be customized in the admin panel on products, categories, or CMS pages.

**How can the root page layout be specified for all pages and for specific pages?**

Set the `layout` parameter on the `<page />` node to the ID of a layout specified in one of the `page_layout` XML files. The node can otherwise be blank if desired. Specific pages can be targeted using the layout XML's filename.

**Further reading:**
* [Layout File Types](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/frontend-dev-guide/layouts/layout-types.html)
