## 2.03 Understand the difference between extending/merging and overriding XML 

### Describe layout XML override technique

**How can layout XML be overridden?**

It is not ideal to override layout. However, as described by this article ([Override a Layout](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/frontend-dev-guide/layouts/layout-override.html)), there are some situations where overriding XML layout is inevitable.

For example, to completely erase the existing Magento product page layout in our SwiftOtter Flex theme, you would create a new XML file in: `app/design/SwiftOtter/Flex/Magento_Catalog/layout/override/frontend/catalog_product_view.xml`.

**Note that these files are placed into the `override` folder** instead of directly inside the `layout` folder. XML files that are directly placed in the `layout` directory are merged, while XML files that are placed in the appropriate subdirectory of `override` replace the original file.

All layout instructions from the Catalog module's original `catalog_product_view.xml` will be eliminated.

**How can layout overriding be used in theming?**

If an existing layout file contains an instruction that you cannot change by extending, then overriding that layout file might be the only recourse. In our experience with building Magento websites, we have yet to come across a time where this is necessary.

**What are the consequences of layout overrides during upgrades?**

New blocks or containers could be added to the core layout file with a new version. If that file was overridden, other modules that depend on specific elements would not have access to them (and their functionality would be halted) unless you manually added them to your theme's override.

**What is the effect of layout overrides on compatibility?**

Overriding layout files circumvent any changes in core files and increase chances of trouble during upgrades. As such, it must be viewed as the ultimate last result.

### Understand layout merging

**What is layout merging?**

Layout merging is the process of assembling all of the layout XML files into one large XML document ([`\Magento\Framework\View\Model\Layout\Merge::loadFileLayoutUpdatesXml()`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/44a86cbbc5a2d6c8309de34922818c3e04b2dcd1/lib/internal/Magento/Framework/View/Model/Layout/Merge.php#L773)). When rendering the page, Magento locates the layout instructions for the particular handles ([`\Magento\Framework\View\Model\Layout\Merge::fetchPackageLayoutUpdates`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/44a86cbbc5a2d6c8309de34922818c3e04b2dcd1/lib/internal/Magento/Framework/View/Model/Layout/Merge.php#L594)) and merges them together. Magento then traverses this document instantiating PHP classes for each block and then rendering the output.

Layout is merged in order that the modules are loaded ([Component Load Order](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/extension-dev-guide/build/module-load-order.html)). To quickly see the loading order of modules, check the `app/etc/config.php` file. If two conflicting instructions are given, the module that loads last wins.

When you are building a new theme, you will need to make adjustments to the layout XML. While you can override layout XML files (see discussion above), this is less than ideal for upgradeability purposes as any updates that Magento ships will not be present in the overridden files.

Instead, utilize the layout XML merging directories. For example: `app/design/SwiftOtter/Flex/Magento_Catalog/layout`. We can create layout XML files that will be merged with layout XML files in the `Magento_Catalog` module. As such, we can use instructions like `<move element="element.to.move" destination="can.be.same.parent" after="element.to.be.placed.after"/>`

If you want to see the results of the layout merging on your developer machine, do the following:

* Navigate to [`\Magento\Framework\View\Result\Page`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/lib/internal/Magento/Framework/View/Result/Page.php)
* Locate the `render()` method.
* After the `$output = $this->renderPage();` method, add:
  * `$output .= $this->getLayout()->getXmlString();`

Go to a page on the website and view source. The XML will be appended after the HTML tag.

**How do design areas influence merging?**

Layout XML instructions are first merged in the `base` area and then by the area that applies to the current request (`frontend` or `adminhtml`).

Here is the order in which layout XML is merged:

* Module base files loaded
* Module area files loaded
* Sorted according to their module priority (array index of module's position in `app/etc/config.php`)
  * If their priorities are equal, they are sorted according to their alphabetical priority.
* Theme files (from furthest ancestor to current theme)
  * Layout files loaded
  * Override files replaced
  * Theme override files replaced

Source: [`vendor/magento/framework/View/File/Collector/Base.php`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/lib/internal/Magento/Framework/View/File/Collector/Base.php)

**How can merging remove elements added earlier?**

The only way to remove elements added earlier is through the `remove` attribute on the `referenceBlock` or `referenceContainer` tags:
```xml
<referenceBlock name="info.product.sku" remove="true"/>
```

**What are additive changes and what are overriding changes during layout merging?**

Additive changes are when you create new XML elements that are in addition to what has already been written. These changes will likely affect existing elements (setting new arguments, for example).

Let's look at an example from [`Magento_Catalog/view/frontend/layout/catalog_product_view.xml`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/code/Magento/Catalog/view/frontend/layout/catalog_product_view.xml). Locate the `product.attributes` block in this file:

```xml
<block class="Magento\Catalog\Block\Product\View\Attributes" name="product.attributes" as="additional" template="Magento_Catalog::product/view/attributes.phtml" group="detailed_info">
  <arguments>
    <argument translate="true" name="title" xsi:type="string">More Information</argument>
  </arguments>
</block>
```

Let's create our own, in `SwiftOtter/Flex/Magento_Catalog/layout/catalog_product_view.xml`:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<page xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:magento:framework:View/Layout/etc/page_configuration.xsd">
    <body>
        <referenceBlock name="product.attributes">
            <arguments>
                <argument translate="true" name="test" xsi:type="string">Test Argument</argument>
            </arguments>
        </referenceBlock>
    </body>
</page>
```

When setting a breakpoint in [`vendor/magento/module-catalog/view/frontend/templates/product/view/attributes.phtml`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/code/Magento/Catalog/view/frontend/templates/product/view/attributes.phtml), you will see that the `$block->_data` array has a new key, `test`, with the value of `Test Argument`. This is considered an additive change.

You can change the argument name to `title` and notice the difference in the `$block->_data` variable. As such, you are overriding the existing value for `title` and are specifying your own. This is considered an overriding change.

### Understand processing order of layout handles and other directives

**In what order are layout handles processed?**

They are processed in the order in which the handles were added to the Merge class [`\Magento\Framework\View\Model\Layout\Merge`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/lib/internal/Magento/Framework/View/Model/Layout/Merge.php). The `default` handle is loaded first. Then, in order of when they were added through the request lifecycle.

In the above class, see the `load()` method. In this method, the layout is merged as it loops through the associated layout handles.

As a side note: this can cause some trouble if you are relying on a custom-injected layout handle to adjust the design on a page. As such, there may be instances where you need to go to extra lengths to inject a layout handle earlier in the application's lifecycle.

**In what order is layout XML merged within the same handle?**

This would then be according to the order in which the layout files are loaded. See the in-depth topic on Section 3.6.

**How can the processing order be influenced?**

The processing order and merging of layout XML is determined by the module load order. Adjusting the `<sequence/>` setting for modules will influence the processing order of layout XML.

For backend developers, you can use plugins to inject your layout handles earlier in the process. For example, if you want to add a layout handle before the `catalog_product_view` one, you need to create a `before` plugin for [`\Magento\Catalog\Helper\Product\View::initProductLayout()`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/44a86cbbc5a2d6c8309de34922818c3e04b2dcd1/app/code/Magento/Catalog/Helper/Product/View.php#L167).

**What are common problems arising from the merge order of layout declarations?**

The most common problems are:
* Accidental overrides: where you specify `<block name="...">` which happens to be the same name as another block.
* Wishful overrides: where you want to override another block, but you specify a different name and the block is injected twice.
