## 2.04 Demonstrate how to pass and utilize arguments to templates 

**Points to remember:**
* Templates are phtml files; they have no arguments.
* Phtml templates may only be rendered via the layout mechanism in connection to the [`Magento\Framework\View\Element\Template`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/lib/internal/Magento/Framework/View/Element/Template.php) block.
* Blocks allow arguments passed through the layout.xml, di.xml and directly in the php code. In this section, we are only interested in the first option.
* Sometimes it's useful to encapsulate all variables needed for a template in a separate php class (called ViewModel).

### Render values of arguments set via layout XML

**How can values set on a block in layout XML be accessed and rendered in a template?**

In this example customization:
```xml
<referenceBlock name="product.info.sku">
    <arguments>
        <argument name="test_value" xsi:type="string">11111</argument>
    </arguments>
</referenceBlock>
```

The value for `test_value` will be available in the template like: `$block->getData('test_value')` (or `$block->getTestValue()`).

**Further reading:**
* [Adding Frontend Assets](https://alanstorm.com/magento_2_javascript_css_layout_woes/)

Usually when developing a new phtml template associated with a block, we have a need to pass variables to the template. Above we've seen that we can do it via `<arguments>` layout instruction, which is quite a powerful tool, however sometimes (almost always, actually) we need more dynamics and flexibility. In order to achieve it, we create view models. `ViewModel` (in this context, don't mess it up with knockout ViewModels!) is a PHP class which provides variables to a template. From within a template, you can access a view model in the same way as described above, and then fetch all variables from the view model itself.

**Further reading:** 
* [DevDocs: View Models](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/extension-dev-guide/view-models.html)

