## 2.05 Demonstrate ability to create and customize templates 

First, we'll discuss creating new phtml templates (and associated blocks), and later we'll cover how to override templates for existing blocks.

In order to create a new, functional phtml template one has to take the following steps:
* Create/modify a layout update file and add a new block.
* The easiest case is using a block of the type [`Magento\Framework\View\Element\Template`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/lib/internal/Magento/Framework/View/Element/Template.php).
* One may create a custom block extending [`Magento\Framework\View\Element\Template`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/lib/internal/Magento/Framework/View/Element/Template.php) but this is not necessary.
* Create a phtml file itself, in the module's folder `view/frontend/templates/<path-to-phtml-file>.phtml`. Obviously adminhtml templates go to the `view/adminhtml/templates` folder. Pay attention to the folder name - `templates` not `template`!
* A template can also be created in the theme's folder, however it is better to place new templates in the module, unless there is a reason to have it in the theme.
* Take action in order for a block to be rendered. These could be assigning a block as a child of a container or assigning a block as a child of another block, in which case one usually has to override the parent's block template and render the newly created block manually using `<?php $this->getChildHtml(".."); ?>` instruction.

Since template files may have the same name (for example, different modules may have different `price.phtml` files, which is different from the catalog's one), we need an unambiguous way to reference a phtml file in the layout. For doing so, we add the file name (relative to the templates folder) after the module name. So the file `SwiftOtter/Module/view/frontend/templates/some/custom/price.phtml` will be referenced as:
`SwiftOtter_Module::some/custom/price.phtml`

### Assign a customized template file using layout XML

**How can a customized template file be assigned to a block using layout XML?**

```xml
<block name="custom.block" template="SwiftOtter_Module::test.phtml"/>
```

The provided template path can be broken down into two arguments, which are located on either side of the scope separator `::`.

The first states the area to look in, in this case `SwiftOtter_Module`, which looks in the corresponding module:
```
app/code/SwiftOtter/Module
```

The second part `test.phtml` is the path within this module's template folder (`view/[area]/template`): in this case that completes the path:
```
app/code/SwiftOtter/Module/view/frontend/template/test.phtml
```

If you would like to change the template and use another one:
```
<referenceBlock name="custom.block" template="SwiftOtter_Module::product-attribute.phtml"/>
```


**How does overriding a template affect upgradability?**

When overriding a template file by assigning a new template via layout XML, you effectively break the fallback path for a template. This prevents themes from modifying the template.

**What precautions can be taken to ease future upgrades when customizing templates?**

* Backend developers: consider a plugin for the block (this would prevent using view models in such a case) that would only turn on the customized template when necessary.
* Avoid overrides where possible.

### Override a native template file with a customized template file, using the design fallback.

**How can the design fallback be used to render customized templates?**

You can customize a template by adding it to your custom theme. For example, to modify [`vendor/magento/module-catalog/view/frontend/templates/product/list.phtml`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/code/Magento/Catalog/view/frontend/templates/product/list.phtml), use the following path:

```
app/design/frontend/SwiftOtter/Flow/Magento_Catalog/view/frontend/templates/product/list.phtml
```

**Further reading:**
* [Templates Basic Concepts](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/frontend-dev-guide/templates/template-override.html)


**How does that influence upgradability?**

While the chances are usually slim, there can be broken functionality that occurs when upgrading. The reason is that the template that was overridden may have been enhanced along with other aspects of the system that depended on the template. If the overridden template is not upgraded, things can break.

The most notorious example was from Magento 1 days. SUPEE-9767 enabled form key checking on the checkout. With the patch, Magento added the form key to the templates. But many checkouts had at least some customized template files which then did not include the form key. While this was easy to catch with testing, it added to the overall implementation time for this upgrade.

**How can you determine which template a block renders?**

The easiest way is to enable template hints, which can be activated using the command-line: `bin/magento dev:template-hints:enable`. Or in the admin area, they are in the following locations:

Frontend:
Stores > Settings > Configuration > Advanced > Developer > Debug > Enabled Template Path Hints for Storefront > Yes

Admin:
Stores > Settings > Configuration > Advanced > Developer > Debug > Enabled Template Path Hints for Admin > Yes

The next step is to look through the Magento code. The template is often set in layout XML, so this is the best place to start. Locate the block that renders the template in XML and see if the template is set. If so, it will contain the reference to the template. In some places, though, the template is defined in the PHP class itself. If this is the case, open the block class and look for the `$_template` property or some place where it is set.

**Further reading:**
* [StackExchange: Template Path Hints](https://magento.stackexchange.com/a/173221/13)

### Describe conventions used in template files

**What conventions are used in PHP templates?**

* `$this` no longer applies to the rendering block. Use `$block` or `$block->getData('view_model')` to obtain access to the instigating object or its data.
* Always type hint variables that are automatically imported (`$block`, `$viewModel`).
* Never use squiggly braces: this is a code smell that indicates your block or view model should be doing more work.
* If you need to use a loop, use the `foreach` > `endforeach` constructs.
* Keep templates to a reasonable minimum. Massive 500 line files are a code smell.
* Magento now uses `<?=` instead of `<?php echo`.
* Always translate strings in templates that will be displayed to user.

**Why aren't the common PHP loop and block constructs used?**

Magento templates do not use the `if(){ /* … */ }` constructs because squiggly braces are harder to discern in HTML.

**Further reading:**
* [StackOverflow: Difference between `if () { }` and `if () : endif;`](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/564130/difference-between-if-and-if-endif)

**Which common methods are available on the `$block` variable?**

* `getRootDirectory()`
* `getMediaDirectory()`
* `getUrl()`
* `getBaseUrl()`
* `getChildBlock($alias)`
* `getChildHtml($alias, $useCache = true)`
* `getChildChildHtml($alias, $childChildAlias = '', $useCache = true)`: this method returns the HTML from a grandchild block.
* `getChildData($alias, $key = '')`: calls `getData` on a child block.
* `formatDate($date = null, $format = \IntlDateFormatter::SHORT, $showTime = false, $timezone = null)`
* `formatTime($time = null, $format = \IntlDateFormatter::SHORT, $showDate = false)`
* `getModuleName()`
* `escapeHtml($data, $allowedTags = null)`
* `escapeJs($string)`
* `escapeHtmlAttr($string, $escapeSingleQuote = true)`
* `escapeCss($string)`
* `stripTags($data, $allowableTags = null, $allowHtmlEntries = false)`
* `escapeUrl($string)`
* `getVar($name, $module = null)`: locates a value from the themes `etc/view.xml`

**How can a child block be rendered?**

`$block->getChildHtml('child-name');`

**How can all child blocks be rendered?**

`$block->getChildHtml();`

**How can a group of child blocks be rendered?**

Groups are a little-known part of the Magento layout system. These methods are found in [`vendor/magento/framework/View/LayoutInterface.php`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/lib/internal/Magento/Framework/View/LayoutInterface.php). The primary example of groups in the Magento core is on the product detail page's tabs and can be seen rendered here: [`Magento/Catalog/view/frontend/templates/product/view/details.phtml`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/code/Magento/Catalog/view/frontend/templates/product/view/details.phtml). Rendering them involves obtaining all of their names using `getGroupChildNames` and then rendering each block by name in a loop. 
