## 1.01 Describe Adobe Commerce theme folder structure and how it relates to folder based themes

**Points to remember:**
* Local themes are stored in `app/design`.
* Composer-based themes can be stored anywhere.
  * As default unless a specific alternative is stated, Composer based modules/themes will be located in the `vendor/` directory.
* `etc/`, `i18n/` and `web/` are directories found in most themes.

Local themes are stored in the `app/design` directory. If a theme is loaded through Composer, that theme can be located anywhere on the file system, but in most cases will use the default vendor/ directory within Magento.

See Objective 6.2 for more details regarding the Composer.

Magento uses the Composer autoloader. If you look at Luma theme's [composer.json](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/design/frontend/Magento/luma/composer.json), you will see the `autoload.files` node, whose value is `registration.php`.

As the Magento application starts up, Composer executes each file as specified in the `autoload.files` section. [`registration.php`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/design/frontend/Magento/luma/registration.php) then registers itself as a theme. The theme is now available.

### Describe the different folders of a theme

`etc/`: this folder usually has one file: [`view.xml`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/design/frontend/Magento/luma/etc/view.xml). `view.xml` provides configuration values for the theme in a structured format.

`i18n/`: this folder contains translations for the theme: [`en_US.csv`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/design/frontend/Magento/luma/i18n/en_US.csv).

`media/`: this folder usually has one file: [`preview.jpg`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/design/frontend/Magento/luma/media/preview.jpg). The preview image provides a sample of what the theme will look like when activated.

`web/`: the files and directories here will be eventually downloaded by website visitors. In one form or another, they will ultimately be accessible from `pub/static/`. LESS files will first be placed in `var/view_preprocessed` before being compiled and found in `pub/static`.
As a rule of thumb, Magento recommends not to use this directory but rather place customizations of the theme into the appropriate directory within the module directory where the functionality originates (for example, checkout customizations should be placed under the `Magento_Checkout/web` directory).

`css/`: location of base Magento stylesheets. These will be exported to the `pub/static/[area]/[package]/[theme]/[locale]/css` directory.

`css/source/`: LESS files that implement styles for basic UI elements. Most of these styles are mixins for global elements from the Magento UI library. `theme.less` is also located here, which overrides values for the default variables.

`fonts/`: web fonts that will be utilized in the theme.

`images/`: images that are included in the theme. These are images that will not frequently change. For example, you would include an icon here but not a free shipping banner.

`js/`: theme-specific JS.

**Module overrides:**

When developing a theme, you will likely need to override another module's assets. These overrides reside in the theme folder, then the module's name. For example, in our `SwiftOtter_Flex` theme, we need to override [`addtocart.phtml`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/code/Magento/Catalog/view/frontend/templates/product/view/addtocart.phtml) in `Magento_Catalog`.

To accomplish this, we would copy `addtocart.phtml` into `app/design/SwiftOtter/Flex/Magento_Catalog/templates/product/view`.

The result is an easy-to-remember and replicable directory scheme.

**Further reading:**
* [Theme Structure](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/frontend-dev-guide/themes/theme-structure.html)

### Describe the different files of a theme

[`composer.json`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/design/frontend/Magento/luma/composer.json): this provides basic instructions, telling Composer information about the module. The most important information is the `autoload.files` node where Composer is informed about `registration.php`.

[`registration.php`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/design/frontend/Magento/luma/registration.php) (required): this registers the module as a theme with Magento. It is important to note that the component name is made up as follows:
* `adminhtml` or `frontend`
* /
* Package name (often the developing company)
* /
* Theme name

Examples:
* `frontend/SwiftOtter/Flex`
* `frontend/Magento/luma`
* `adminhtml/Magento/backend`

[`theme.xml`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/design/frontend/Magento/luma/theme.xml) (required): this file describes the theme to Magento. You will see a `title` node, a `parent` node (optional), and a `media/preview_image` (optional) node.

**Further reading:**
* [Theme Structure](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/frontend-dev-guide/themes/theme-structure.html) 
