##1.02 Demonstrate the ability to create a new theme (Inheritance/Fallbacks, design exceptions, theme properties)

### Describe the relationship between themes

**What type of relationships can exist between themes?**

Parent/child.

In the theme's `theme.xml` file, you can specify the `<parent/>` node, like: `<parent>Magento/blank</parent>`. As such, a theme can be a part of (or the end of) many layers of other themes.

In the Magento world, the word "fallback" is used to describe the priority in which Magento loads the file. The reason why fallback is needed, is the fact that the "same" file may be located in multiple places; for example a phtml template can be located in the module's folder, theme's folder, and child theme's folder. So Magento has to choose one file out of the three possibilities.
Working through this guide you will learn about fallback of:
* Phtml templates (Section 2)
* Layout updates (Section 2)
* Styles (Section 3)
* JavaScript modules (Section 4)
* Html templates (Section 4)

-----------

This hierarchy is what is used to determine the fallback sequence for theme inheritance (see [`\Magento\Theme\Model\Theme.php`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/code/Magento/Theme/Model/Theme.php) and [`Magento/Theme/Model/Theme/`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/tree/2.4-develop/app/code/Magento/Theme/Model/Theme)).

**What is the difference between a parent theme and a child theme?**

The only difference is that the child theme is the theme that is currently selected for display in the specified area. Any theme can be chosen for display (whether or not it specifies a parent in `theme.xml`).

**Further reading:**
* [Theme Inheritance](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/frontend-dev-guide/themes/theme-inherit.html)

**How can the relationship between themes be defined and influenced?**

The relationship is determined by the presence of the `<parent/>` node in `theme.xml`.

**How is that taken into account when creating a custom theme or customizing an existing theme?**

This information is useful to determine the fallback sequence. Fallback is used to determine a file to load in a sequence of other themes when the file does not exist in the current theme. The actual mechanism varies between file types (different for layout XML vs template files).

**Theme properties**

Theme configuration is located in two files: `theme.xml` and `etc/view.xml`
We have briefly discussed `theme.xml`: it contains information about the parent theme, title, and preview image.
`view.xml`, in turn includes an important configuration for different image types and their dimensions, variables, and js files to exclude (from bundling)
See: [DevDocs: Configure Theme Properties](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/frontend-dev-guide/themes/theme-images.html) and [`Magento/blank/etc/view.xml`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4/app/design/frontend/Magento/blank/etc/view.xml)
