## 1.04 Demonstrate ability to customize transactional emails 

Email templates in Magento are organized as follows:
* There is a file (`etc/email_templates.xml`) which describes the main information about the template.
* Email templates are technically html files with a custom syntax. Files are located in the `view/frontend/email` (or `view/adminhtml/email`) folder.
* In the template, one may specify different custom variables, use variables coming from the PHP code, or add custom styles and images.
* It is possible to customize email templates in the admin panel.

### Xml configuration for email templates.
The file `etc/email_templates.xml` is defined in [`magento-email/etc/email_templates.xsd`]( https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/code/Magento/Email/etc/email_templates.xsd).

A great example of email templates is in the `Magento_Sales` module: [Magento/Sales/etc/email_templates.xml](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/code/Magento/Sales/etc/email_templates.xml).

Main configuration items which are specified in the xml file are: `id`, `label`, `file`, `type` (usually "html"), `module`, and `area`. 

All options are self-explanatory.

### Html template files for emails
Email templates are located in the `view/frontend/email` (or `view/adminhtml/email`) folders. See, for example: [`Magento/Sales/view/frontend/email/order_new.html`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/code/Magento/Sales/view/frontend/email/order_new.html).

In the html file, you can do the following:
* Include another html file by its id: `{{template config_path="design/email/header_template"}}`
* Use translation: `<h3>{{trans "Billing Info"}}</h3>`
* Use variables (usually coming from PHP code): `{{trans "%customer_name," customer_name=$order_data.customer_name}}`

Here you have a translation instruction applied to the string `"%customer_name"`. The `%` indicates that there is a variable (`customer_name`). The variable should be specified after the string: in this case: `customer_name=$order_data.customer_name`. Note that the `order_data` has been passed from the PHP code as an array with the `"customer_name"` key.

You can also apply some functions to the variables, such as: `raw` (leave the text as it is), `nl2br`, `escape` and so on.

Email styling will be covered in section 3.5 and the admin panel management in 5.5.
