## 1.05 Demonstrate ability to apply translations

### Create and change translations

**Demonstrate an understanding of internationalization (i18n) in Magento. What is the role of the theme translation dictionary, language packs, and database translations?**

Internationalization has been a core Magento feature since its early days. Magento 2 maintains strong support across the entire platform.

Magento includes a feature to locate all translatable strings within a particular path. You can utilize this for an entire Magento installation or just for a module or a theme.

To find all translatable strings for a module (or modules):
```
bin/magento i18n:collect-phrases app/code/SwiftOtter/Test
```

To assist in building a language package, you need to locate all strings within the Magento application. You can run this command to obtain this information:
```
bin/magento i18n:collect-phrases -m
```

When run with the `-m` flag, two additional columns are added: `type` and `module`. `type` is either `theme` or `module`. The `module` column represents the module that utilizes this translation.

**Theme translation dictionary**

A theme translation dictionary allows you to specify translations for words used in a theme or a module. These phrases are placed in a `.csv` inside your module or theme's `i18n` directory (`app/code/SwiftOtter/Test/i18n/de_DE.csv`).

Translations specified for the theme or module are the first two sources of translation data. These translations can be overridden by a language package or in the database.

**Further reading:**
* [Generate a Translation Dictionary](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/config-guide/cli/config-cli-subcommands-i18n.html#config-cli-subcommands-xlate-dict)
* [Use Translation Dictionary to Customize Strings](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/frontend-dev-guide/translations/theme_dictionary.html)

**Language packs**

A language pack allows you to translate words used anywhere in Magento. The source for this is the `bin/magento i18n:collect-phrases` command with the `-m` flag. This searches the entire Magento application (including modules and themes) for all translatable strings.

The output from this command is the fundamental ingredient to a language pack.

Once you have translated the strings, you then execute this command (substituting the path to the CSV file and specifying the target language):
```
bin/magento i18n:pack /absolute/path/to/file.csv de_DE
```

You must then create a new language module within the `app/i18n/SwiftOtter_FR/` (or something similar). This contains the usual module files (`registration.php` uses the [`\Magento\Framework\Component\ComponentRegistrar::LANGUAGE`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/lib/internal/Magento/Framework/Component/ComponentRegistrar.php) component type). It also includes a `language.xml` file:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<language xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
        xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="...">
  <code>fr_FR</code>
  <vendor>SwiftOtter</vendor>
  <package>fr_fr</package>
  <use vendor="Magento" package="fr_FR"/>
</language>
```

You can include multiple `<use/>` nodes in the `language.xml` file. If Magento does not find a string in the included language package, it will search through each `<use/>` (and subsequently those language package's `<use/>` nodes) until it finds an applicable translation.

If no translation is found, the module or theme's own translation is used. If none is found, the original, untranslated text is returned.

Inside the language package, include the CSV generated above named as the contents of the `<code/>` node with a `.csv` suffix.

**Further reading:**
* [Create a Language Package](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/config-guide/cli/config-cli-subcommands-i18n.html#config-cli-subcommands-xlate-pack)
* [German Locale Pack](https://github.com/splendidinternet/Magento2_German_LocalePack_de_DE)
* [French Locale Pack](https://github.com/magento/magento2/tree/2.4/app/i18n/Magento/fr_FR)


**Database translations**

Database translations are the easiest to implement, but the most difficult to transfer from installation to installation. They are found in the `translation` table.

To create a new translation, the easiest is to turn on Inline Translation (Store > Configuration > Developer > Translate Inline). You could also insert new rows in the `translation` table manually with the limitation being the need to determine the module to associate the translation to.

While translating with Inline Translation, disable the `Translations`, `Block HTML`, and `Full Page` caches.

**Understand the pros and cons of applying translations via the `translate.csv` file versus the `core_translate` table. In what priority are translations applied?**

Any translations found in the `translate.csv` are easily replicated to other instances where this file is utilized. However updating a file is usually less convenient than using the translate inline feature for the Magento frontend.

Translations are applied in this order:

1. Module translations
2. Theme translations
3. Translation package
4. Database translations

As a result, database translation is good for overriding other translations where necessary.

### Translate theme strings for .phtml, emails, UI components, .js files

**PHTML:**
```php
<?= __('Shopping cart');?>
<?= __("There are %s items in your cart", $count); ?>`
```

**Email templates:**
```
{{trans "Shopping Cart"}}
{{trans "%items are shipping today." items=shipment.getItemCount}}
```

**JavaScript translation:**

See section 4.5 for details.

**Further reading:**
* [DevDocs: Translate Theme Strings](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/frontend-dev-guide/translations/translate_theory.html)
* [Mage2.tv: Localization in JavaScript](https://www.mage2.tv/content/javascript/localization-in-javascript/)
