## 1.06 Given a set of use cases, identify when to place files in `app/code` or `app/design` 

### `app/code`
This folder is used for custom modules, so everything that falls in the custom module should go there. Usually there is a `view/frontend/web/css/source/_module.less` file which is a starting point for module-related styles. Html, phtml, js, and layout files that are related to a module should be placed into a module's folder as well.

### `app/design`
This folder is used for custom themes. So everything that is theme-specific should be placed here. For example, general theme variables and common styles are always theme-specific.

It may be a bit challenging, sometimes, to identify what exactly goes to the module and what to the theme. The rule of thumb is the following: anything that is more or less theme independent should be placed in the module's folder, and anything that is theme-specific in the theme's folder.

The second aspect is customizations. Sometimes, assuming there is a custom theme, one uses the theme to override a file (a phtml template for example), just because it is simpler. Generally speaking, this is not best practice. If you need to override a phtml template for a given module, it is better to do it in the custom module, using a layout update.

Another side of the same problem is a situation when there is no custom theme, but some general styles have to be changed. In this case, changes may be placed in a custom module. However, this is not best practice either.

Finally, to see an example of the theme-specific versus module-specific files, see the Magento_Catalog module:
* [`Magento/Catalog/view/frontend/web/`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/tree/2.4-develop/app/code/Magento/Catalog/view/frontend/web)
* [`app/design/frontend/Magento/luma/Magento_Catalog/`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/tree/2.4-develop/app/design/frontend/Magento/luma/Magento_Catalog)
