## 6.01 Demonstrate the usage of basic bin/Magento commands 

Magento provides the command line tool out of the box. In order to run it, one issues the command:
```
$ php bin/magento <command> <arguments>
```

In order to see the list of all available commands use:
```
$ php bin/magento list
```

In order to get help on a particular command use:
```
$ php bin/magento help <command>
```
or
```
$ php bin/magento <command> -h
```
(The first option is preferable, because it executes `help` with the `<command>` as an argument which prevents the `<command>` from being executed, while the second option may accidentally execute the `<command>` if you forget the `-h`.)

For example:
```
$ php bin/magento help store:list
```

You can safely run this command to see the list of stores:
```
$ php bin/magento store:list
```

Note that some commands may cause damage if executed without understanding what they are doing.

### Understand Magento console commands

**How do you switch between deploy modes? What bin/magento commands are commonly run during frontend development?**

To switch between deployment modes:
```
bin/magento deploy:mode:set production
```
or
```
bin/magento deploy:mode:set developer
```

To show the current deployment mode:
```
bin/magento deploy:mode:show
```

To clear all caches:
```
bin/magento cache:flush
```

To disable a cache:
```
bin/magento cache:disable full_page
```

To see the enabled or disabled state of caches:
```
bin/magento cache:status
```

To symlink the JS, LESS, and image files into the `pub/static` folder during development:
```
bin/magento dev:source-theme:deploy
```

When pushing code to production, to compile the frontend assets (note that this does not work in developer mode - [Deploy Static View Files](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/config-guide/cli/config-cli-subcommands-static-view.html)):
```
bin/magento setup:static-content:deploy
```
Other useful commands are `config:show` and `config:set`.

```
$ php bin/magento config:show
```
The above outputs all system configuration values. You can always specify variable name/store to see a specific value. See
```
$ php bin/magento help config:show
```
for details.

```
$ php bin/magento config:set
```
This in turn can be used to set the value. It is analogous to setting the value in the admin panel. 
