## 6.05 Describe additional tools that cloud provides (Fastly, downloading database, content deployment, branching using UI)

Working with a site on Adobe Commerce Cloud introduces new infrastructure, tools, and concepts into the mix.

### The Fastly CDN

All production Adobe Commerce environments can and should implement full page caching with Varnish. On Cloud, the 
implementation via the Fastly service provides additional configuration tools and additional capabilities like image
optimization.

With Fastly enabled as the full page caching application, incoming page requests are received by Fastly first, which serves
a cached response if possible, without the web server's involvement and without initializing the Magento application. When
cached pages expire or are invalidated, Fastly sends the request to Magento for the usual execution process.

With your Cloud plan, you will be provided with Fastly API tokens and service IDs for the Production and Staging environments.
(Typically, these credentials are already configured in the Magento admin.) All settings related to Fastly are found in
the admin in **Stores > Configuration > Advanced > System > Full Page Cache**. The Caching Application must be set to 
"Fastly CDN", and further configuration settings including the Fastly Service ID and Fastly API Token are found in the
**Fastly Configuration** group in the same section.

The caching application, service ID and token can and likely should be set with environment variables instead of directly
in the admin:

* `CONFIG__DEFAULT__SYSTEM__FULL_PAGE_CACHE__CACHING_APPLICATION` (value 42)
* `CONFIG__DEFAULT__SYSTEM__FULL_PAGE_CACHE__FASTLY__FASTLY_API_KEY`
* `CONFIG__DEFAULT__SYSTEM__FULL_PAGE_CACHE__FASTLY__FASTLY_SERVICE_ID`

An "Upload to VCL to Fastly" button in the Store Config section will upload the standard Magento VCL configuration that is
required for Fastly to properly proxy requests.

Among the Fastly Configuraiton options is a section for Image Optimization. Enabling Fastly IO from this section will upload
the proper VCL snippet to Fastly and result in the offloading of dynamic image resizing to Fastly.

**Further reading:**

* [Adobe Commerce Fastly Documentation](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/commerce-cloud-service/user-guide/cdn/fastly.html)

### Cloud environments and management

Any Cloud project comes with multiple "environments." Environments exist in a hierarchy, correspond with branches in the Cloud Git repository,
and can be active or inactive. *Active* environments are also deployed into working service containers in the cloud and are
accessible for browsing. The exact environment hierarchy can vary depending on the Cloud plan, but they commonly include
the Production environment that is the live store, a child of that environment called Staging, a child of *that* environment
called Integration, and any other environments users choose to branch from this.

Cloud users have numerous capabilities for managing environments, and many of these tasks can be accomplished either
through the **Project Web Interface** via a web browser or via the standalone **Cloud CLI tool**.

Instructions for installing the Cloud CLI tool can be [found in the documentation](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/commerce-cloud-service/user-guide/dev-tools/cloud-cli.html),
and this tool is then used from a terminal with commands like `magento-cloud {command-name}`.

### Syncing and backing up environments

Each environment has its own Git branch that can continue to diverge from its parent and children, as well as its own database
instance and media store. It's often desirable to refresh an environment by syncing the code and data from its parent downstream.

Syncing can be done with the Project Web Interface or Cloud CLI tool, and code and data can be synced independently.

* __Syncing data__: The current state of the parent database and media files is copied to the target environment.
* __Syncing code__: This involves a Git operation to merge the latest upstream changes into the target environment branch.

In the Project Web Interface, a "Sync" action appears in the toolbar for any environment being viewed. The interface allows
you to choose whether to sync code, data, or both.

With the Cloud CLI tool, the `environment:synchronize` command can be used for the same operation, allowing the `code`
and/or `data` arguments to specify which to sync. The CLI tool also allows the `--rebase` option, which results in a rebase
of the environment branch.

```shell
magento-cloud environment:synchronize code data --rebase
```

Snapshots are another Cloud environment feature, allowing the creation of a backup that includes the current code state, mounted
volume files, and all persistent service data (including the database) for a given environment. An environment is placed
in maintenance mode while a snapshot is being created, and a snapshot can be restored up to seven days after it's created.

In the Project Web Interface, creating a snapshot is done from the same toolbar where Sync is found, and snapshots can be
located and restored in the environment's messages list.

With the Cloud CLI tool, snapshots are handled with the commands `snapshot:create` (to create a new snapshot), `snapshot:list`
(for viewing all existing snapshots), and `snapshot:restore` (to restore a snapshot, using a snapshot ID from the `list`
command as an argument).

Direct database exports can also be created with the Cloud CLI tool on your local workstation, or using the ECE-Tools package
(which is a Composer dependency of all Cloud projects) directly in the Cloud environment.

* `magento-cloud db:dump`
* `php vendor/bin/ece-tools db-dump`

**Further reading:**

* [Backup Management](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/commerce-cloud-service/user-guide/develop/storage/snapshots.html)

### Branching and merging environments

New environments can be created for staging and testing new code and configuration. It's recommended only to branch new
environments from Integration.

In the Project Web Interface, while viewing the environment you wish to branch from, a "Branch" option is found in the toolbar
along with the Sync and Snapshot options. Simply provide the name of the new environment. When viewing an environment that
is a child of another, a "Merge" option is also found in the toolbar to merge the code branch to the parent.

With the Cloud CLI tool, the following commands are available:

* `magento-cloud environment:branch --title="Title"` to branch from the current environment
* `magento-cloud environment:checkout` to check out a particular environment branch locally
* `magento-cloud environment:merge` to merge the currently checked out environment upstream

**Further reading:**

* [Environment and Branch Management](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/commerce-cloud-service/user-guide/develop/cli-branches.html)

### Build and deployment

Several operations trigger a new build or deployment for a Cloud environment. There are three distinct phases:

* __Build__: Composer installation is done, patches are applied, etc. No services or connections are available.
* __Deploy__: Services are activated and internal network connections enabled. During this phase, the site is in maintenance
  mode and incoming requests are put on hold.
* __Post-Deploy__: Any tasks in this phase take place after connections to the website resume. For example, certain pages
  can be "warmed" in the page cache.

A full new build is triggered when new commits
are pushed into the corresponding Git branch. However, other operations (like updating environment variables) can also trigger
the Deploy and Post-Deploy phases. Some variables (see below) are relevant to only specific build/deploy phases.

**Further reading:**

* [Deployment Overview](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/commerce-cloud-service/user-guide/develop/deploy/process.html)

### Cloud variables

There are a number of different types of variables, in various contexts, related to Cloud architecture.

One of the most notable types of variables is *environment variables* that can be set directly on environments, and in particular
those that can override Store Configuration settings. The names of these variables have the format `CONFIG__{SCOPE}__{PATH}`, where
`{SCOPE}` is either "DEFAULT" or a combination of a scope type and scope code (e.g., "WEBSITES_DEFAULT"). `{PATH}` is the
path of the Store Config field, all uppercase with `/` replaced by `__`.

The `env:` prefix is also required for Store Config variables. Here's an example of the correct variable name to set
the `general/store_information/name` Store Config setting for the "FR" store: `env:CONFIG__STORES__FR__GENERAL__STORE_INFORMATION__NAME`.

Environment variables like this will override even values locked in `env.php` or `config.php`, and child environments can
inherit their parent environments' values.

In the Project Web Interface, a Variables tab is available for managing these vars, both at the project level and when 
navigating to "Configure environment" for a specific environment. The Cloud CLI tool features the commands `variable:create`,
`variable:delete`, `variable:get`, `variable:list` and `variable:update`.

Several unique variables are set in the configuration file `.magento.env.yaml`, instead of as environment vars. A number
of these are relevant to the build and deploy process. 

* `CLEAN_STATIC_FILES`: If `true`, all existing static content is removed before deploying freshly deployed content.
* `SCD_COMPRESSION_LEVEL`: The gzip compression level (0 to 9) for compressing static content
* `SCD_COMPRESSION_TIMEOUT`: Maximum execution time for static content compression, in seconds
* `SCD_ON_DEMAND`: If `true`, allows static content deployment to be run dynamically at runtime, in response to static content requests
* `SCD_MATRIX`: Allows specifying a list of specific themes and locales for which to deploy static content
* `SCD_MAX_EXECUTION_TIME`: The maximum allowed execution time for static content deployment, in seconds
* `SCD_NO_PARENT`: If `true`, prevents generating static content for parent themes during build or deploy
* `SCD_STRATEGY`: Static content deployment strategy to use, when there are more than one theme/locale combinations to deploy. "standard", "quick", and "compact".
* `SCD_THREADS`: How many threads to use for static content deployment. Default value is set based on detected CPU thread count (not exceeding 4).
* `SCD_USE_BALER`: If `true`, the Baler module is run after static content deployment to scan JavaScript code and create optimized bundles.
* `SKIP_SCD`: If `true`, skip static content deployment during the build phase
* `TTFB_TESTED_PAGES`: List of pages to use for "time to first byte" tests run after deployment, the results of which are written to the cloud log
* `WARM_UP_PAGES`: List of pages for which to preload cache after deployment. See documentation for formatting examples.
* `WARM_UP_CONCURRENCY`: The number of concurrent requests to send during cache warmup operations

The following is an example of a value for `SCD_MATRIX`, which can help speed up build time by specifying only the the themes
and locales that need static content generated.

```yaml
stage:
  build:
    SCD_MATRIX:
      "Magento/backend":
        language:
          - en_US
      "Magento/blank":
        language:
          - en_US
      "Magento/luma":
        language:
          - en_US
          - fr_FR
```

**Further reading:**

* [Override Config Settings](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/commerce-operations/configuration-guide/paths/override-config-settings.html)
* [Global Vars](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/commerce-cloud-service/user-guide/configure/env/stage/variables-global.html)
* [Build Vars](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/commerce-cloud-service/user-guide/configure/env/stage/variables-build.html)
* [Deploy Vars](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/commerce-cloud-service/user-guide/configure/env/stage/variables-deploy.html)
* [Post-Deploy Vars](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/commerce-cloud-service/user-guide/configure/env/stage/variables-post-deploy.html)

### Optimized static content deployment

The configuration of static content deployment in your Cloud project deserves special attention, because this is a key factor in the amount of downtime your site experiences during deployments.

By default, static content deployment occurs during the deploy phase when the site is in maintenance mode and unavailable 
for web traffic. With the right configuration details present in disk configuration, however, the process can be moved into the build phase and
lead to near "zero downtime" deployments.

The site's registered themes, website and store records, the associations between stores and themes, and certain key config
information can be configured on disk in `config.php`, making these key details available during the build phase when the
database is not available. Here's an abbreviated example:

```php
'scopes' => [
    'websites' => [
        ...
        'base' => [
            'website_id' => '1',
            'code' => 'base',
            'name' => 'Main Website',
            'sort_order' => '0',
            'default_group_id' => '1',
            'is_default' => '1'
        ]
    ],
    'groups' => [
        ...
        [
            'group_id' => '1',
            'website_id' => '1',
            'name' => 'Main Website Store',
            'root_category_id' => '2',
            'default_store_id' => '1',
            'code' => 'main_website_store'
        ]
    ],
    'stores' => [
        ...
        'default' => [
            'store_id' => '1',
            'code' => 'default',
            'website_id' => '1',
            'group_id' => '1',
            'name' => 'Default Store View',
            'sort_order' => '0',
            'is_active' => '1'
        ],
        'french' => [
            'store_id' => '2',
            'code' => 'french',
            'website_id' => '1',
            'group_id' => '1',
            'name' => 'French Store',
            'sort_order' => '0',
            'is_active' => '1'
        ]
    ]
],
'themes' => [
    'frontend/Magento/blank' => [
        'parent_id' => null,
        'theme_path' => 'Magento/blank',
        'theme_title' => 'Magento Blank',
        'is_featured' => '0',
        'area' => 'frontend',
        'type' => '0',
        'code' => 'Magento/blank'
    ],
    ...
    'frontend/Magento/luma' => [
        'parent_id' => 'Magento/blank',
        'theme_path' => 'Magento/luma',
        'theme_title' => 'Magento Luma',
        'is_featured' => '0',
        'area' => 'frontend',
        'type' => '0',
        'code' => 'Magento/luma'
    ]
],
'system' => [
    'default' => [
        'general' => [
            'locale' => [
                'code' => 'en_US'
            ]
        ],
        'design' => [
            'theme' => [
                'theme_id' => 'frontend/Magento/luma'
            ]
        ]
    ],
    'stores' => [
        'french' => [
            'general' => [
                'locale' => [
                    'code' => 'fr_FR'
                ]
            ]
        ]
    ]
]
```

The `.magento.env.yaml` file should also be configured with these values for build-phase static content:

* `SKIP_HTML_MINIFICATION`: `true`
* `SKIP_SCD`: `false`
* `SCD_STRATEGY`: `compact`

Other key variables in `.magento.env.yaml` that have an impact on optimizing static content deployment include 
`SCD_MATRIX`, as previously mentioned, and `SCD_THREADS`, which should be set to the maximum possible value according to 
the available CPU threads.

**Further reading:**

* [Optimized Deployment](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/commerce-cloud-service/user-guide/develop/deploy/optimization.html)
* [Zero Downtime Deployment](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/commerce-cloud-service/user-guide/develop/deploy/reduce-downtime.html)
* [Static Content Deployment](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/commerce-cloud-service/user-guide/develop/deploy/static-content.html)
