## 3.02 Describe the difference between specific partial files (_extends.less, _extend.less, _theme.less, _widgets.less, _module.less)

### Describe the purpose of `_module.less`, `_extend.less`, `_extends.less`

**Demonstrate LESS has no fallback capabilities and therefore Magento created @magento_import directives to enable FE devs to inject or replace parts of existing less structures of modules and themes.**

LESS does not have the ability to dynamically find and include partials. As a result, every path must be included individually in the primary stylesheet. To work around this limitation, Magento provides a `//@magento_import` directive. This will search for files through many locations and include each version that it finds. Note the use of the `//` as a comment to prevent any errors with LESS. Using the `//@magento_import` directive allows the inclusion of a specific file from each module with just one line.

Reference: [`Magento/blank/web/css/styles-l.less`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/design/frontend/Magento/blank/web/css/styles-l.less)

Here are some of the primary uses of `//@magento_import`:

`_module.less`: This is the main entry point of a module's stylesheet. For a module, it can have partials of its own, if desired, and should place them in a `/module` directory next to this file. For a theme, this would override the core module's primary stylesheet. As a result, this would be done in cases where a significant portion of the styles are being updated.

`_extend.less`: This should mostly or entirely be empty in modules. For themes, if most of the core module's stylesheets are good and the goal is only to update a few things, the easiest way to do that is to create an `_extend.less` file. This file is loaded after `_module.less` and consequently will apply given the same selector.

`_extends.less` ([`Magento/blank/web/css/source/_extends.less`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/design/frontend/Magento/blank/web/css/source/_extends.less)): this file contains a massive list of abstract selectors that can be "extended" from mixins.

`_theme.less` is a basic file that contains theme variables. Usually you do not have to override this file, unless you want to override all variables from the parent theme.
See [`Magento/luma/web/css/source/_theme.less`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/design/frontend/Magento/luma/web/css/source/_theme.less) for more details.

`_widgets.less` a file that is supposed to include styles for widgets, and it is included automatically. However, native themes do not have this file.
