## 3.04 Explain the core concepts of LESS

### Explain core concepts of LESS

**Describe features like file import via `@import` directive, reusable code sections via mixins together with parameters and the usage of variables. Demonstrate your understanding of the special variable `@arguments`.**

**`@import` directive:**

While Magento contains hundreds of `.less` files, it compiles those files back into a number of `.css` files. LESS provides an `@import` construct to import a file. All files can import other files. Eventually an entire tree is built of imported files. A LESS convention is that all files that are included by the @import construct starts with an underscore in its filename.

The [`styles-l.less`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/design/frontend/Magento/blank/web/css/styles-l.less) file contains this line:

```
@import '_styles.less';
```

This is including [`_styles.less`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/design/frontend/Magento/blank/web/css/_styles.less), which includes other files.

**Further reading:**
* [DevDocs: The `@import` directive rules of usage](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/frontend-dev-guide/css-topics/css-preprocess.html#fedg_css-import)
* [Less Css: @import At-Rules](http://lesscss.org/features/#import-atrules-feature)

**Mixins**

This is the equivalent to a method or a function in another programming language. Mixins return CSS instructions. The goal is that you write it once in a mixin and then reuse that throughout the application's theme ([DRY principle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don%27t_repeat_yourself)).

The way it works is you write some LESS instructions (which, in this case, are verbatim CSS):
```less
.element-selector {
  background-color: #ff0000;
}
```

And then call it:
```less
.another-element-selector {
  .element-selector();
}
```

This results in:
```less
.another-element-selector {
  background-color: #ff0000;
}
```

Mixins can also contain parameters. Using our above fictitious example:
```less
.element-selector(@color) {
  background-color: @color;
} 
```

This is called:
```less
.another-element-selector {
  .element-selector(#0000ff);
}
```

Mixin parameters can be supplied in a format similar to a JavaScript object and many in Magento are set up this way. When this is the case, one can pass in a subset of arguments by including the parameter's name along with the argument value.

**Further reading:**
* [Mixins](http://lesscss.org/features/#mixins-feature)

**Variables:**

Variables allow you to specify a value in one place and then use it in other locations (just like with programming). Magento makes heavy use of LESS variables (hopefully, someday we will see them simplified).

**Further reading:**
* [Variables](http://lesscss.org/features/#variables-feature)

**@arguments**

`@arguments` takes the arguments that were passed into a mixin and renders them in that order.

**Further reading:**
* [The `@arguments` Variable](http://lesscss.org/features/#mixins-feature-the-arguments-variable)

**Demonstrate how to use the nesting code formatting, and the understanding of media queries together with nesting.**

In writing vanilla CSS, you can have a maximum of three levels of nested code:
* Media query
* @supports wrapper
* Selector

LESS gives you the power to nest CSS as deep as you wish. This LESS is then compiled back into the above two levels of nested code.

Here is an example:
```less
// app/code/SwiftOtter/Test/view/web/css/source/_module.less

.element-selector {
  color: #000000;

  .child-selector {
    background-color: #ff0000;
  }
}

```

This is compiled into:

```less
.element-selector { color: #000000; }
.element-selector .child-selector { background-color: #ff0000; }
```

Media queries also follow this idea.

```less
.element-selector {
    background-color: #ff0000;
  
    @media screen (min-width: 750px) {
      background-color: #0000dd;
    }
} 
```

This is compiled into:

```less
.element-selector {
  background-color: #ff0000;
}

@media screen (min-width: 750px) {
  .element-selector {
    background-color: #0000dd;
  }
}
```

While nesting can appear very helpful, it can introduce tremendous bloat into styling. It seems to fix specificity problems but adds many extra bytes. The question that we ask is: "Are the additional selectors necessary?" In many cases, they are not. Small changes to deeply nested selectors can have significant impact on output. For instance, adding a comma and second class name to a selector five levels deep doubles the entire chain. Deep nesting also leads to hard to manage selectors that are more specific than is required and difficult to override. Instead, using a quality naming convention, such as [BEM](http://getbem.com/) will eliminate many levels of nesting and simplify code reuse.

**Describe how the `&` (Ampersand) works and its function. Describe how calculations are possible as well.**

The `&` is a concatenation character and is particularly useful with writing [BEM styles](http://getbem.com/).

Here is an example:

```less
.element-selector {
  color: #000000;

  &__text {
    font-size: 1rem;
  }

  &__call-to-action {
    background-color: #ff0000;
  }
}
```

This compiles to:

```less
.element-selector { color: #000000; }
.element-selector__text { font-size: 1rem; }
.element-selector__call-to-action { background-color: #ff0000; }
```

Calculations are also possible:
```less
.element-selector {
border-width: 1px + 1px;
}
```

This compiles to:
```less
.element-selector { border-width: 2px; }
```

It is generally better to limit its use, though, because it can make finding the initial declaration of the style more tedious because searching is essentially useless.

**Further reading:**
* [Operations](http://lesscss.org/#operations)
