## 3.06 Explain the hierarchy of styles (lib, modules, themes) 

In Magento, styles are located on different "levels". They are:
1. UI Library
2. Blank theme
3. Luma theme
4. Custom theme

In a custom theme, one may override or change any styles or variables defined above. See the general discussion about the fallback process in Section 1.2.

Note, that Magento is looking for files in the order 4-1 (so it first looks in the custom theme, then Luma, then blank), assuming that a custom theme extends Luma (otherwise Magento skips 3). For example, if Magento has to find a certain less or js file, it looks for this file in the appropriate folders of a custom theme, its parents, and UI library. See 1.2 for general discussion of the fallback process.

We will discuss the UI library below. The structure of the theme and relationship between a theme and modules will be discussed in other sections of this document. See 1.1, 1.2, and 3.1-3.3.

See 3.7 for customization of lib files.

### Magento UI library usage

**Demonstrate your understanding of Magento's UI library, a LESS-based library of mixins and variables for many different standard design elements on websites. How can you take advantage of the UI library? What do you have to do to enable it in your theme?**

Magento has built a library of mixins to attempt to simplify the task of theming common layout components. These are found in [`lib/web/css/source/lib/`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/tree/2.4-develop/lib/web/css/source/lib).

If you have built a custom theme, these components will need to be imported with a path like:

```
@import (reference) '../../css/source/lib/lib';
```

As an example, let's add a new font onto our website design (don't take the font names seriously):

```
.lib-font-face("Trebuchet MS", "@{baseDir}fonts/trebuchet-ms", 500);
```

Another example:
```
.footer-breadcrumbs {
  .breadcrumbs();
}
```

**Caution:** some of the mixins are extraordinarily large. Instead of including a large mixin to accommodate your interface, we recommend exploring the option of matching Magento's selector structure in order to leverage their styles. This prevents introducing a large amount of nearly duplicate code.

**Further reading:**
* [UI Library](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/frontend-dev-guide/css-topics/theme-ui-lib.html)
* [Using Custom Fonts](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.2/frontend-dev-guide/css-topics/using-fonts.html)

**Which file is primarily used for basic setup of variables? Where can UI library files be found?**

New variables should be placed in local theme `lib/` or local theme files. Overrides of existing variables should be declared in this file: `<theme_dir>/web/css/source/_theme.less`.

The source UI library files are located in [`lib/web/css/source/lib/`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/tree/2.4-develop/lib/web/css/source/lib).

Source: [`Magento/blank/web/css/source/_theme.less`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/design/frontend/Magento/blank/web/css/source/_theme.less) 
