## 3.07 Demonstrate the ability to implement and customize LESS library components 

**How can a lib file be extended?**

There are multiple ways to extend a lib file. You can extend it by copying the  `.less` file into your theme. For example, if you need to customize `_dropdowns.less`:

```
# Mac/Linux copy [from] [to]
cp lib/web/css/source/lib/_dropdowns.less app/design/frontend/SwiftOtter/Flex/css/source/lib
```

The caveat here is that the less you copy core files, the more upgradeable the application will be.

Another approach is to implement your own custom version of the file, containing only your overrides. You can do this by adding the following file:
```
app/design/frontend/SwiftOtter/Flex/css/source/custom/lib/_dropdowns.less
```

This will not be imported by default as it is an additional file, so you will need to add the import yourself. You can copy the core import file (`web/css/_styles.less`) to your theme at the following location:
```
app/design/frontend/SwiftOtter/Flex/css/_styles.less
```

Then add the additional import. The best method to use will be dependent on the level of extension required. For example, in a situation where you want to override a single mixin within a lib file that contains multiple, it may be beneficial to just add your own custom file containing the single override. This method also helps to clearly identify where edits have been made.

**Further reading:**
* [A Look at CSS and Less in Magento 2](https://www.classyllama.com/blog/a-look-at-css-and-less-in-magento-2)

**How can you change specific parts of the UI library?**

The mixins usually have default parameters that are variables declared in the `./variables` folder. As a result, many things can be changed by setting your own values on those variable names in the `_theme.less` file. You can also override the files and make further changes. Finally, when including a Magento UI library mixin in your own code, you can specify custom values for the many parameters that are available. The breadcrumbs UI widget ([`lib/web/css/source/lib/_breadcrumbs.less`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/lib/web/css/source/lib/_breadcrumbs.less)) has almost sixty variables that can be customized. 
