## 3.08 Identify the differences between client-side vs server-side compilation and how it works 

**Which LESS compilation options are available in Magento? How are they different?**

Server-side and client-side are the two available options. This is configured in Store > Configuration > Advanced > Developer > Frontend Development Workflow.

**Server-side:** LESS files are compiled with a PHP LESS library. In developer mode, PHP will generate the CSS files on the fly provided there is not one already. Running `php bin/magento setup:static-content:deploy` will also compile the stylesheets.

**Client-side:** LESS files are compiled every page load on the client side. This results in exceptionally slow response times and a horrible flash of unstyled text.

**How do they influence the developer workflow during theming?**

Client-side (JavasSript based) compilation is hardly a consideration as developers should be more efficient than that. Magento provides a Grunt toolkit which will watch the source files and re-compile the output ones when changes are made. More information can be found in the DevDocs: [Compile LESS Using Grunt](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/frontend-dev-guide/css-topics/css_debug.html). Further, we have had good success using Gulp from the [Snowdog Frontools project](https://github.com/SnowdogApps/magento2-frontools) and their Magento SASS port. SASS (and Gulp) compiles significantly faster than LESS (and Grunt) and Frontools provides additional features such as BabelJS support.

### Explain Magento's implementation of LESS (@magento_directive)

**Demonstrate the process from magento-less files via php preprocessing into real LESS files with extracted @import directives. Where can the intermediate files be found?**

Magento's LESS (PHP) classes are found in the [`\Magento\Framework\Css`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/tree/2.4-develop/lib/internal/Magento/Framework/Css) namespace.

When loading the page, Magento looks for any `css` insertions into the `<head/>` ([`Magento/Framework/View/Page/Config/Reader/Head.php`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/lib/internal/Magento/Framework/View/Page/Config/Reader/Head.php)) tag in layout XML. Any `.css` file references are changed to `.less` and a search is made for a LESS file with that name. From there, Magento parses the `@imports` and `//@magento_import` instructions ([`Magento/Framework/Css/PreProcessor/Instruction/MagentoImport.php`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/lib/internal/Magento/Framework/Css/PreProcessor/Instruction/MagentoImport.php)) and assembles file paths based on the fallback directories.

Magento's Luma and blank themes load in two CSS files: [`styles-l.css`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/design/frontend/Magento/blank/web/css/styles-l.less) (desktop) and [`styles-m.css`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/app/design/frontend/Magento/blank/web/css/styles-m.less) (mobile and greater). These are the entry points into the LESS file structure. These are also the output files (except that they will have a `.css` extension). All LESS files that have been imported by another LESS file are included into one of these two files.

The intermediate files are found in the `var/view_preprocessed` directory. From there, they are symlinked into the pub/static directory.

**Further reading:**
* [Server-side Less Compilation](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/frontend-dev-guide/css-topics/css-preprocess.html#server-side)

**What do you have to remember, when you change a less file? Which files will be re-processed on file changes? Are the original files copied or symlinked in developer environments?**

When you create a new LESS file you first need to run `bin/magento dev:source-theme:deploy`. Then (or if you just make a change to a new LESS file) you need to delete the `pub/static/[area]` directory. Refresh your browser to regenerate files (and get something to drink while you wait). Better yet, use the Grunt compiler.

**TIP:** Or, for even faster response, use [Snowdog's SASS port](https://github.com/SnowdogApps/magento2-theme-blank-sass) and Frontools.

If you use client-side compilation, most changes are seen immediately when refreshing the browser.

The original files are symlinked (see [`Magento/Framework/App/View/Asset/MaterializationStrategy/Symlink.php`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/lib/internal/Magento/Framework/App/View/Asset/MaterializationStrategy/Symlink.php) and [`Magento/Framework/App/View/Asset/Publisher.php`](https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.4-develop/lib/internal/Magento/Framework/App/View/Asset/Publisher.php)
).
